[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ¬∑

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

!["Where the Web was born" ‚Äî AKASHA team visit at
CERN](/static/3512087d602e5f95169ce180f06138d8/e4796/MURAL.png)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Research](/blog/category/research/)

## "Where the Web was born" ‚Äî AKASHA team visit at CERN

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

¬∑

March 06, 2019

A delegation of the AKASHA team gathered in Geneva mid-February to meet with
the group from CERN's [Idea Square](http://ideasquare.web.cern.ch/).

[
![IDEA_SQUARE_STREET](/static/bef67fca76570a4edd7605248aeefb0f/1c72d/IDEASQUARE.jpg)
](/static/bef67fca76570a4edd7605248aeefb0f/ddced/IDEASQUARE.jpg) _Approaching
CERN Idea Square._

[CERN](https://home.cern/) is the European Organization for Nuclear Research
that operates the world's largest particle physics laboratory near Geneva,
Switzerland.

The mission of Idea Square resonates very well with the goals of the AKASHA
Foundation:

> Connecting curious minds to accelerate ideas through collaboration, R&D
> prototyping, and experimental innovation.

It also relates to the very first post on the AKASHA blog ["Unveiling
AKASHA"](https://akasha.org/blog/2016/05/03/unveiling-akasha).

[ ![IDEA_SQUARE_BREAKFAST
](/static/3bcf043363aef95531f1a0bc401db6f7/1c72d/AKASHA_IDEA_SQUARE_TEAM.jpg)
](/static/3bcf043363aef95531f1a0bc401db6f7/d2602/AKASHA_IDEA_SQUARE_TEAM.jpg)
_A croissant and first dive into the world of CERN by Pablo Garcia Tello on
the whiteboard in the Idea Square kitchen. In the picture: Lorenzo Patuzzo,
Martin Etzrodt, Roxana Sureanu, Mihai Alisie, Philip Sheldrake, Marcos Ligero
(HIRUU, Barcelona), and Pablo Garcia Tello (CERN)_

We're continuously scouting for use cases that we believe can benefit from the
transformational potential of blockchain-type technologies to solve some of
the biggest challenges we face as a civilization, specifically when setting
out to encourage the emergence of collective intelligence.

We give the global sharing of information relating to science, innovation and
knowledge creation a high priority. Society needs to be able to source from an
unbiased, readily and comprehensively-accessible, open repository of all human
knowledge.

Such resource does not yet exist. It's not even clear how this may be
achieved. And yet CERN has a track record ... it's where Sir Tim Berners-Lee
and a team of engineers knew they were onto something big when they
[created](https://home.cern/science/computing/where-web-was-born) the World
Wide Web in 1989.

[ ![WEB_INSCRIPTION2](/static/dd8d5aecd1a04ac13fd03c6f1ef538d8/1c72d/WEB-
INSCRIPTION.jpg) ](/static/dd8d5aecd1a04ac13fd03c6f1ef538d8/2ceaa/WEB-
INSCRIPTION.jpg) _A closeup of the inscription in front of Tim Berners-Lee 's
former office at CERN._

Take a look at [the first websites that emerged at CERN between 1990 and
1992](http://info.cern.ch/hypertext/DataSources/bySubject/Overview.html) and
see for yourself which use cases were initially considered and tested. We're
still grappling with many of the ideas of the early days, including the
concept of a "personal homepage" as this nice
[clip](https://youtu.be/_uG-Q1pWqBc) points out.

Re-establishing privacy and agency on the Web ‚Äî let's call it the "post-
Facebook" era ‚Äî should help us to re-align with the vision of the Web's
founders and create a resource that harnesses the collective intelligence of
humanity to address our largest challenges.

In the coming months, we'll reveal more details about our joint vision with
the CERN group. For now, we can share some impressions of this event and also
use this opportunity to express again our gratitude to the CERN team including
Oday Darwich, Pablo Garcia-Tello, Markus Nordberg, and Romain Mueller that
hosted us on this truly epic day! üëèüëèüëè

[
![ANDREI_ODAY_MARKUS_Presentation](/static/9a45b30a759cbdee615a36eb4425d815/1c72d/ANDREI-
IDEA-SQUARE.jpg) ](/static/9a45b30a759cbdee615a36eb4425d815/72e01/ANDREI-IDEA-
SQUARE.jpg) _Andrei is pitching his[Hyperdata
PoC](https://akasha.org/blog/2019/03/04/bridging-networks-with-hyperdata). In
the picture: [Markus Nordberg](https://nordberg.web.cern.ch/nordberg/) (CERN,
Idea Square), Oday Darwich (CERN, Idea Square), and [Andrei
Sambra](https://deiu.me/)._

[ ![THE_FIRST_WEB_CAFE](/static/d210a09b9c06cc977667738f0c6845e9/1c72d/FIRST-
INTERNET-CAFE.jpg) ](/static/d210a09b9c06cc977667738f0c6845e9/9568a/FIRST-
INTERNET-CAFE.jpg) _The world 's first "Web" caf√©?_

[ ![LEAD_ION_RING](/static/03b101b6f4d9ff97aea33976f9bef142/1c72d/LEAD-ION-
INJECTOR.jpg) ](/static/03b101b6f4d9ff97aea33976f9bef142/d9c39/LEAD-ION-
INJECTOR.jpg) _The former Low Energy Antiproton Ring at CERN._

[ ![MIHAI_TUBE](/static/bf596618a6dfe793ffabb7aed9b447c3/1c72d/MIHAI-TUBE.jpg)
](/static/bf596618a6dfe793ffabb7aed9b447c3/72e01/MIHAI-TUBE.jpg) _Is this
real?_

[ ![PHILIP_TUBE](/static/3ba15ad905a2e4c02bd28651d9ed794a/1c72d/PHILIP-
TUBE.jpg) ](/static/3ba15ad905a2e4c02bd28651d9ed794a/72e01/PHILIP-TUBE.jpg) _"
Yeah! Science!"_

[ ![SITUATION_ROOM](/static/2a4f073dc97f2c3a30089d6a8fcfb3a8/1c72d/SITUATION-
ROOM.jpg) ](/static/2a4f073dc97f2c3a30089d6a8fcfb3a8/d2602/SITUATION-ROOM.jpg)
_Situation Room: CERN 's Romain Mueller discusses information critical to our
future collaboration._

[
![WWW_SERVER_CERN_DATA_CENTER](/static/204bbc1b1e694bc2d330ce23c41a25a8/1c72d/WWW-
SERVERS.jpg) ](/static/204bbc1b1e694bc2d330ce23c41a25a8/72e01/WWW-SERVERS.jpg)
_The organization maintains its own physical infrastructure to ensure the
rapid data exchange required for global, multi-institutional co-operation ‚Äî
the CERN internet exchange point[(CIXP)](https://cixp.net/about-cixp). The
CIXP also serves as one of the four Swiss internet exchange points._

[ ![AKASHA_TEAM](/static/b4c46aff07032a3bb642952d4f434b9b/1c72d/WHERE-THE-WEB-
WAS-BORN.jpg) ](/static/b4c46aff07032a3bb642952d4f434b9b/9c9b2/WHERE-THE-WEB-
WAS-BORN.jpg) _Our delegation in front of Sir Tim Berners-Lee 's former
office, "Where the WEB was born". In the picture (left to right): Philip
Sheldrake, Martin Etzrodt, Oday Darwich (CERN), Mihai Alisie, Roxana Sureanu,
Andrei Sambra, Marius Darila, Lorenzo Patuzzo, Marcos Ligero (HIRUU,
Barcelona)_

Cover image: [Josef Kristofoletti's](http://www.kristofoletti.com) mural of
[ATLAS](https://atlas.cern/) on the maintenance building above the detector's
cavern.

[News](/blog/category/news/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Research](/blog/category/research/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 ‚Äî Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 ‚Äî Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt‚Ä¶

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

Mar√≠a Sanmart√≠n and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and‚Ä¶

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 ‚Äî Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 ‚Äî Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized‚Ä¶

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ¬∑

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2019/03/06/akasha-
at-cern)

