###### [![Samourai
Wallet](https://64.media.tumblr.com/avatar_36fa1c18c89f_64.pnj) Samourai
Wallet](/)

* * *

* * *

* * *

x

  * [Archive](/archive)
  * [RSS](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/rss)
  * [Simplify](http://simplifytheme.tumblr.com) version 1.22. Theme Designed & Developed by [](http://amitjakhu.com)Amit Jakhu. Powered by [Tumblr](http://tumblr.com).

[Sep 28  
2018](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/178536644472/09875-welcome-new-
international-users-and)

### [0.98.87 - Welcome new international users, and saying adieu to fiat
currency.](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/178536644472/09875-welcome-
new-international-users-and)

We are very pleased to roll out Samourai Wallet update 0.98.87 available to
update via Google Play for existing testers, install from [Google
Play](https://href.li/?https://samouraiwallet.com/alpha/signup.html) for new
testers, or build from source on
[Github](https://href.li/?https://github.com/Samourai-Wallet/samourai-wallet-
android/releases).

apk hash sha-256 of version 0.98.87 :
861c5b709173fbaab897a11d2991c6c4112a633173ed7b6d4a766257a9914f91

## Translations

We firstly want to shout out the fantastic Samourai community for their drive
to provide high quality localisation for Samourai Wallet and Sentinel. It is
because of their determination and support of our mission to create a more
private bitcoin that Samourai Wallet is now available in 12 languages (see the
full list at the bottom of this post) with French and Chinese added in this
release. These aren't generic computer translations, these are translations by
actual bitcoin users from the local region, and as such are extremely high
quality and contextual.

We have already seen the side effects with installs increasing dramatically
from international user bases with a native translation, usually in places
where they need Samourai the most. If you would like to offer a translation
for Samourai Wallet into your own language, or would like to improve an
existing translation you can [follow this
guide](https://href.li/?https://support.samourai.io/article/72-contribute-a-
translation-to-samourai-wallet).  

## Farewell fiat

> "We believe it is fundamental that our existing and future users understand
> that when they transact within the Bitcoin network, when they participate in
> the Bitcoin economy, they are transacting with the token native to that
> network, BTC, and nothing else."

In 2015 when we first launched Samourai Wallet, we reasoned that a fiat based
conversion rate would be a convenient feature for users who wished to have a
rough idea of what their BTC stash was worth in fiat currency at any given
time. We said **_" users aren't ready"_** to give up fiat in the wallet, and
we ended up including what we called the "Street Price" \- the fiat conversion
rate as provided by exchanges and services without KYC/AML requirements - and
left it at that.

In 2017 we noticed a disturbing trend within the wider community. Many news
outlets, data providers, prominent persons, and innocent users started to
refer to bitcoin transactions in USD terms instead of BTC terms. Prominent
altcoin proponent Roger Ver noted to his 500k Twitter followers that "TX fees
SKYROCKET to $55/TX", he of course knows better and was maliciously spreading
propaganda to further his agenda, but the damage was done. Since then we have
noticed many bitcoin users innocently noting their wallet balance, amounts
sent, and miner fees in fiat currency instead of BTC. We spent many hours a
week in our support channels explaining to confused and concerned users why
they had 8 USD yesterday and 7 USD today. We reasoned that ** _ "Users aren't
ready" _**to give up thinking in fiat terms, and with education they would
eventually change.

 **We are now nearing the end of 2018 and realize that users will never be
ready.** Thinking in fiat currency terms is familiar, you likely interact with
it all the time. This is precisely the reason that within the context of a
Bitcoin wallet it is a crutch. We have made the decision that as of [version
0.98.87](https://href.li/?https://samouraiwallet.com/alpha/signup.html) to
remove that crutch. All fiat currency conversions have been removed from
Samourai Wallet. We understand this may inconvenience some, it may even be
enough to cause us to lose some users, but we believe it is fundamental that
our existing and future users understand that when they transact within the
Bitcoin network, when they participate in the Bitcoin economy, they are
transacting with the token native to the Bitcoin network, BTC, and nothing
else.

We have decided to keep fiat currency conversion within the Sentinel Watch
Only app, as independent merchants who frequently use the app and other use
cases require the use of a currency conversion function.

## Hello satoshi

The smallest unit of bitcoin is called a 'satoshi' or 'sat'. 1 sat is equal to
0.00000001 BTC. When you tap your balance in your Samourai Wallet instead of
the fiat currency conversion your wallet will convert to display in satoshi
units.

![image](https://64.media.tumblr.com/b744a2f8962f107d81485cfc70b1c4a5/tumblr_inline_pfrb3qHIK01tu47rq_640.gifv)

As always we appreciate your continued support of the project.

We are available as always to answer any questions on
[support.samourai.io](https://href.li/?http://support.samourai.io) or by email
at support@samouraiwallet.com  

You can download Samourai Wallet from the [Google Play
Store](https://href.li/?https://samouraiwallet.com/alpha/signup.html)

* * *

 **Full list of supported languages and their translator(s)**

Brazilian Portuguese
([Rayserzor](https://href.li/?https://github.com/Samourai-Wallet/samourai-
wallet-android/commits?author=Rayserzor))

Bulgarian ([Relaxo143](https://href.li/?https://github.com/Samourai-
Wallet/samourai-wallet-android/commits?author=Relaxo143))

Chinese ([rbensberg](https://href.li/?https://github.com/Samourai-
Wallet/samourai-wallet-android/commits?author=rbensberg))

French ([deBeauvoir](https://href.li/?https://github.com/Samourai-
Wallet/samourai-wallet-android/commits?author=deBeauvoir))

German ([michaelWuensch](https://href.li/?https://github.com/Samourai-
Wallet/samourai-wallet-android/commits?author=michaelWuensch))

Indonesian ([eb-ina](https://href.li/?https://github.com/Samourai-
Wallet/samourai-wallet-android/commits?author=eb-ina))

Italian ([LifeIsPizza](https://href.li/?https://github.com/Samourai-
Wallet/samourai-wallet-android/commits?author=LifeIsPizza))

Portuguese ([ric2b](https://href.li/?https://github.com/Samourai-
Wallet/samourai-wallet-android/commits?author=ric2b))

Russian ([engenegr](https://href.li/?https://github.com/Samourai-
Wallet/samourai-wallet-
android/commits?author=engenegr),[nvyo](https://href.li/?https://github.com/Samourai-
Wallet/samourai-wallet-android/commits?author=nvyo))

Spanish ([eMaringolo](https://href.li/?https://github.com/Samourai-
Wallet/samourai-wallet-android/commits?author=eMaringolo))

Turkish ([yilmzfurkan](https://href.li/?https://github.com/Samourai-
Wallet/samourai-wallet-android/commits?author=yilmzfurkan))

  * [September 28, 2018](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/178536644472/09875-welcome-new-international-users-and)

  1. [![](https://assets.tumblr.com/images/default_avatar/cone_open_16.png)](https://trulife1234.tumblr.com/ "Sharing Love ")[trulife1234](https://trulife1234.tumblr.com/ "Sharing Love") liked this 

  2. [![](https://assets.tumblr.com/images/default_avatar/cone_open_16.png)](https://trulife1234.tumblr.com/ "Sharing Love")[trulife1234](https://trulife1234.tumblr.com/post/179081541874 "Sharing Love") reblogged this from [samouraiwallet](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/ "Samourai Wallet")

  3. [![](https://64.media.tumblr.com/avatar_203ae3049b9e_16.gif)](https://deadkabras.tumblr.com/ "deadkabras ")[deadkabras](https://deadkabras.tumblr.com/ "deadkabras") liked this 

  4. [![](https://64.media.tumblr.com/avatar_36fa1c18c89f_16.pnj)](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/ "Samourai Wallet")[samouraiwallet](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/ "Samourai Wallet") posted this 

[Older Post](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/176412126502) [Newer
Post](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/178925662177)
![](https://px.srvcs.tumblr.com/impixu?T=1653239900&J=eyJ0eXBlIjoidXJsIiwidXJsIjoiaHR0cDovL2Jsb2cuc2Ftb3VyYWl3YWxsZXQuY29tL3Bvc3QvMTc4NTM2NjQ0NDcyLzA5ODc1LXdlbGNvbWUtbmV3LWludGVybmF0aW9uYWwtdXNlcnMtYW5kIiwicmVxdHlwZSI6MCwicm91dGUiOiIvcG9zdC86aWQvOnN1bW1hcnkiLCJub3NjcmlwdCI6MX0=&U=HNPJMMHMLC&K=0944aebfeaba77999786c470da5631a6a99abff18cd72a82bb689e3c40b76866&R=)![](https://px.srvcs.tumblr.com/impixu?T=1653239900&J=eyJ0eXBlIjoicG9zdCIsInVybCI6Imh0dHA6Ly9ibG9nLnNhbW91cmFpd2FsbGV0LmNvbS9wb3N0LzE3ODUzNjY0NDQ3Mi8wOTg3NS13ZWxjb21lLW5ldy1pbnRlcm5hdGlvbmFsLXVzZXJzLWFuZCIsInJlcXR5cGUiOjAsInJvdXRlIjoiL3Bvc3QvOmlkLzpzdW1tYXJ5IiwicG9zdHMiOlt7InBvc3RpZCI6IjE3ODUzNjY0NDQ3MiIsImJsb2dpZCI6MjM1MTUyNzczLCJzb3VyY2UiOjMzfV0sIm5vc2NyaXB0IjoxfQ==&U=HCIEBCKBDL&K=7079e6bc5f4c4af687a7c7c31adf1447c55c719d395383e7ced5846180e1829b&R=)

