###### [![Samourai
Wallet](https://64.media.tumblr.com/avatar_36fa1c18c89f_64.pnj) Samourai
Wallet](/)

* * *

* * *

* * *

x

  * [Archive](/archive)
  * [RSS](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/rss)
  * [Simplify](http://simplifytheme.tumblr.com) version 1.22. Theme Designed & Developed by [](http://amitjakhu.com)Amit Jakhu. Powered by [Tumblr](http://tumblr.com).

[Jan 04  
2019](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/181715312912/099-ui-and-fee-
management-updates)

### [0.99 - UI and fee management
updates](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/181715312912/099-ui-and-fee-
management-updates)

We are pleased to roll out Samourai Wallet update 0.99 available to update via
Google Play for existing testers, install from Google Play for new testers, or
build from source on Github.  
  
**apk hash sha-256 of version 0.99 :
d3c0f83f915daa5e9a57a79d0460d5050786409a70916c13fd59b25129a20989**  

## Transaction Details

We're really excited to implement the long requested Transaction Details
screen. This view allows you to gain important information about your
transactions without having to leave the wallet. Simply tap the transaction
from the balance screen to open the transaction details view. From this screen
you can boost the transaction fee of unconfirmed transactions as well as
review transaction details such as the fee rate paid. You can always open the
transaction in [OXT ](https://href.li/?https://oxt.me)mobile block explorer by
pressing the compass icon in the top right of the toolbar.

![image](https://64.media.tumblr.com/3f2b7a4b7ddcbb9ac8b46eb2bfccfe04/tumblr_inline_pktm83S8Zk1tu47rq_500.png)

## Improved Sending Experience

The send bitcoin screen hasn't changed too much since we first released Alpha
1 in 2015. Since then we have been stuffing all sorts of advanced
functionality into a UI that was struggling to keep up. This is why we took
the opportunity to rethink the Send Bitcoin process and create an experience
that would be extensible as we grow our feature set and more user friendly for
our users today and our future users tomorrow.

![image](https://64.media.tumblr.com/1cb795ed58fd21392cf4f715dd2980e0/tumblr_inline_pktlkpGz5O1tu47rq_500.png)

What was previously crammed into one screen we have now broken down into two
separate steps. First, select who you want to send bitcoin to and select how
much you want to send in BTC or Satoshis (sats). If you're sending to a
centralized exchange/service you may want to [enable Ricochet for added
protection from third party
blacklists](https://href.li/?https://samouraiwallet.com/ricochet), which you
can do from this screen.

The second step is where you review the transaction that will be sent. You can
adjust the transaction priority - which determines how quickly your
transaction gets added to a block - by sliding from left (lowest priority and
lowest fee) to right (highest priority and highest fee) - If your wallet can
send the transaction as a [STONEWALL
](https://href.li/?https://samouraiwallet.com/stonewall)it will be enabled
here, which you can toggle on/off on a per transaction basis. If a STONEWALL
cannot be created, this option will be disabled.

As always we appreciate your continued support of the project.

We are available as always to answer any questions on
[support.samourai.io](https://href.li/?https://support.samourai.io) or by
email at support@samouraiwallet.com  

You can download Samourai Wallet from the [Google Play
Store](https://t.umblr.com/redirect?z=https%3A%2F%2Fplay.google.com%2Fstore%2Fapps%2Fdetails%3Fid%3Dcom.samourai.wallet&t=OWU4MDM5NzVlOTFiYzIzYmFjZThhNzM0NzU5ZmYwMzFjOTE1NDBjZCxtaVNnV1FlOA%3D%3D&b=t%3AgssRereQbaKEWqYj4_q6Mw&p=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.samouraiwallet.com%2Fpost%2F181715312912%2F099-ui-
and-fee-management-updates&m=1&ts=1653247800)

  * [samourai wallet](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/tagged/samourai%20wallet)
  * [samourai](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/tagged/samourai)
  * [bitcoin](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/tagged/bitcoin)
  * [Bitcoin Security](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/tagged/Bitcoin%20Security)
  * [bitcoin privacy](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/tagged/bitcoin%20privacy)
  * [bitcoin wallet](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/tagged/bitcoin%20wallet)

  * [January 04, 2019](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/181715312912/099-ui-and-fee-management-updates)

[Older Post](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/178925662177) [Newer
Post](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/181821635197)
![](https://px.srvcs.tumblr.com/impixu?T=1653247800&J=eyJ0eXBlIjoidXJsIiwidXJsIjoiaHR0cDovL2Jsb2cuc2Ftb3VyYWl3YWxsZXQuY29tL3Bvc3QvMTgxNzE1MzEyOTEyLzA5OS11aS1hbmQtZmVlLW1hbmFnZW1lbnQtdXBkYXRlcyIsInJlcXR5cGUiOjAsInJvdXRlIjoiL3Bvc3QvOmlkLzpzdW1tYXJ5Iiwibm9zY3JpcHQiOjF9&U=NMJPJDHMLH&K=09788d07c1937c9008dc930c14ed5ed43314ca884715f5cb613f82ac6181ccc9&R=)![](https://px.srvcs.tumblr.com/impixu?T=1653247800&J=eyJ0eXBlIjoicG9zdCIsInVybCI6Imh0dHA6Ly9ibG9nLnNhbW91cmFpd2FsbGV0LmNvbS9wb3N0LzE4MTcxNTMxMjkxMi8wOTktdWktYW5kLWZlZS1tYW5hZ2VtZW50LXVwZGF0ZXMiLCJyZXF0eXBlIjowLCJyb3V0ZSI6Ii9wb3N0LzppZC86c3VtbWFyeSIsInBvc3RzIjpbeyJwb3N0aWQiOiIxODE3MTUzMTI5MTIiLCJibG9naWQiOjIzNTE1Mjc3Mywic291cmNlIjozM31dLCJub3NjcmlwdCI6MX0=&U=MDMPJIJCOE&K=8a7f444fdea5485838d043de048f8b50e9f7b2d63ffe4a2f2d5aeeb3b69d79d1&R=)

