[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# 18 Predictions for 2020

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

18 Predictions for 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

December 2019

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

## Now over 11 years since the creation of Bitcoin, almost right on time, 2020
will be the year we generally speaking follow the **S-Curve** (illustrated
below) out of the period of **Installation** and into **Deployment** where we
see themes around ‘synergy’ and ‘consolidation’ begin to take effect.

Posted by Lawrence Lundy - December 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

December 2019

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

This journey into deployment will last throughout 2020 and into 2021. This
will finally be when blockchain grows up, institutional money begins to
trickle into the market based on real fundamentals and there is a great
sorting of projects with traction versus what are to all intents and purposes
‘zombie tokens’.

At the same time there will be more mature and usable networks to create dapps
creating an increasingly competitive landscape for projects to battle it out
with in order to ‘cross the chasm’. But make no mistake this is the beginning
of the cycle where tomorrow’s next internet unicorns are born, built on demand
and mass usage. For that to happen distribution, over any necessarily
fundamental innovation, will become key. This can only be built, bought or
borrowed and is why we continue to champion the creation of an open stack of
collaborating technologies, we call the Convergence Stack, to build the
ecosystem together through shared events like
[diffusion.events](https://diffusion.events/)

![18 Predictions for 2020 Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/12/Screen-Shot-2019-12-18-at-22.54.25.png)



  1. ## **The reckoning: bluechip vs zombie tokens and indices**

The big story throughout 2020 will be ‘The Reckoning’. Despite the longish
bear market, aggregate total market capitalisation of all cryptoassets being
down 88% from an all time high in January 2018 individual valuations for the
vast majority of projects are still not reflective of network activity or
development progress. As exchanges are forced to increasingly professionalise,
zombie tokens will be more aggressively delisted and investors will gradually
flock to quality. This dynamic will lead to a proliferation of new indices
joining the likes of Tradeblock, CMC, Huobi, and CIX tracking particular
fundamentals making it easier for passive institutional capital to enter the
space. This is why we recently invested in Dia Data who supply crowdsourced
yet institutional grade and compliant data feeds to benchmark providers.

The idea of projects worth $100 million without product-market fit will go
away. Public crypto markets can be currently thought of as early-stage startup
markets rather than later-stage companies, but as more sophisticated investors
and institutions enter the picture they will bring much needed rigour to the
market. Valuations can no longer be sustained by just a vision and an idea.
2020 will all be about traction and usage. And not just press release
partnerships, beta releases, and funding rounds. We are talking about Brave
Browser level 10 million monthly active users traction, again something we are
a proud early investor in.

### Measure: More than 5 new indices will launch in 2020 onboarding >$5
billion



## **2\. Beyond the halving, the Bitcoin narrative will be about LApps**

Predicting that Lightning usage will increase is hardly revolutionary. But we
do think in 2020 the narrative around Bitcoin will move away from simply
‘store-of-value’ to an open financial “platform”, with the most secure and
trusted settlement layer in the market. Digital Asset Research exploring the
Bitcoin technology stack has been helpful in reframing the discussion about
what Bitcoin is, and we expect performance enhancements with Schnoor and Erlay
to further change the perception of Bitcoin as a slow and stagnant ecosystem.

Obviously, the halvening will capture much of the attention of the industry
and media, and price action will dominate mind share. But the growth of LApps
(Lightning Apps) and more broadly data anchoring will be a stronger
fundamental signal of the development of a fee market and the long-term
viability of Bitcoin.

### Measure: Bitcoin will increase market dominance from 66% to at least 75%
by the end of 2020.



## **3\. Ethereum 1x maintains momentum, as DeFi creates a deeper moat**

With Istanbul now live, we expect EIP-2028 to have a major impact on layer 2
adoption opening up use cases beyond crowdfunding and DeFi. Expect to see
games currently using EOS and Tron to migrate over to Ethereum to take
advantage of the DeFi lego available. With the development of MAST/Taproot on
the Bitcoin network as well as the influx of new smart contracting platforms
reaching mainnet in 2020, we are likely to continue to see a stable pool of
developers spread over ever more platforms. Leading to fewer new dapps being
built on Ethereum, but with a select few DeFi apps like Maker and Compound
driving an increase in monthly active users and value locked up in contracts.
The prediction that is hard to make is whether a break out application using
DeFi lego building blocks entrenches Ethereum as the base layer or if
interoperability projects like GEO Protocol and others reduce the importance
and value of the base layer over time.

### Measure: Total value locked up in Ethereum DeFi will surpass 1 billion
dollars in 2020

##

## **4\. Smart contract platforms battle for developers**

The glut of new smart contracting platforms will come to market in 2020 and
begin heavily focusing on developer and customer acquisition. In time, general
developers will become more familiar with blockchain-based platforms,
currently estimated to be less than just 1% of the global developer
population, but in 2020, we will still see more supply than demand. In the
context of prediction 1.0, when crypto assets are largely thought of as
digital commodities, this glaring disparity will impact price.

From a problem-to-be-solved lens, the vast majority of developers want to be
able to use stable, secure, fast, and easy-to-use software. Polkadot,
Fetch.ai, Dfinity, Hashgraph, Near Protocol, Spacemesh, Solana, Telegram Open
Network, Thunder Token, nCent, and all the platforms already now in the market
like Cardano, Tezos, Holochain, Algorand, Blockstack, et al, are all
differentiated in some way, but the biggest question is: how do they cut
through with developers who will need to build “killer” apps and attract
consumers? Different developer acquisition strategies will be deployed:
protocol accelerators, ecosystem funds and Devcons, and whilst some will grow
the total number of developers and their share of the market most will
struggle for critical mass head to head against Ethereum and Bitcoin in 2020.

This is why we continue to champion and support through our advisory business
an alliance of protocols to both be interoperable with Ethereum and Bitcoin
but importantly directly integrate and collaborate together through what we
call The Convergence Stack, and shared Dev Con we call Diffusion which brought
together over 23 protocols for hackers to integrate and deploy in combination.

### Measure: No new smart contract platform has more than 400 total
applications by EOY



## **5\. DAI ecosystem grows to solve end-user experience challenges**

Dai will continue its path as the de facto stable coin for Ethereum-based
services (It seems Tether will be hard to dislodge for trading). Expect to see
improved integration into all on-boarding services like wallets, exchanges,
debit cards, and browsers. Access to services will be automated by token swap
tools like Uniswap so users will only hold tokens will demonstrable store-of-
value characteristics. It’s hard to see how many tokens with just a payment
function can compete with a dominant DAI. The more apps like Zerion,
Instadapp, DeFi Saver, Argent, etc integrate with DAI, the more entrenched DAI
becomes and throughout 2020 expect DAI to become the de facto onboarding tool
as developers build apps on Ethereum. All this said, DAI will only continue as
the de facto stable coin for as long as it is not considered by Governments as
a systemic risk to existing monetary systems. For the same reason, don’t
expect Libra to launch with any stablecoin functionality.

### Measure: DAI becomes 10% of stablecoin market share by transaction volume
(25% if Tether collapses)



## **6\. The Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) goes mainstream in China
first**

Talking of stablecoins, the Bank of International Settlements (BIS) survey of
63 central banks in 2018 shows the majority were researching or starting
proof-of-concept work on digital currencies, although most of them were not
ready yet to actually launch. Christine Lagarde, the ECB President, said a
CDBC “could satisfy public policy goals, such as financial inclusion, and
security and consumer protection; and to provide what the private sector
cannot: privacy in payments”. So CBDCs are coming, the question isn’t if, it’s
when. For starters, these CBDCs will be wholesale CBDCs rather than retail.
It’s likely central banks will focus on the wholesale market leaving the
retail market for regulated institutions. In 2020, we expect this to be how
the Chinese Digital Currency Electronic Payment (DCEP) launches with licenses
given to select exchanges and dominant platforms as distribution platforms to
hundreds of millions of users like Alibaba, Baidu and Tencent.

### Measure: More than 500 million Chinese citizens to be using a service
connected to the DCEP network by the end of 2020.



## **7\. Staking becomes institutional as returns are dampened**

In 2019, as predicted, it became clear that users would hold tokens that they
could stake and earn a yield. The median staking yield hovered around 7% but
the median real staking yield hovered at -1%. As more proof-of-stake networks
launch like Cardano and staking providers professionalize, the complexity will
be offloaded from end-users to service providers. Users don’t care if their
assets are locked up in Ark or Ardor, they just want a higher yield. This
means staking networks are in competition with lending providers like Dharma
and Compound for user assets to put to work. In 2020, there will be more
places to put your money than money to be put to work, driving down the real
median staking yield further, making staking less profitable and undermining
the security of a large number of PoS networks. This power-law dynamic will
mean staking operators and individuals will focus on the most profitable
networks crowding out the long-tail of PoS token networks.

### Measure: Median real staking yield over the year remain negative



## **8\. The great delisting and zombie token armageddon**

Potentially between 50% and 75% of publicly listed tokens will be delisted
and/or cease trading in 2020. So from 2,345 tokens actively traded today to
>1000 tokens by the end of 2020. This could go closer to <500 if Binance
decides to go on a delisting exercise to protect users, and get ready for
regulation and staking ends up in a race to the bottom.

New tokens coming to market will be few and far between and will be more
mature. By the end of 2020, public offerings and listings will no longer be
accepted for seed businesses, won’t be quite as advanced as a traditional IPO,
but will at least have a product with product-market fit in the market. Token
distribution events will be used, as originally intended prior to ERC20, to
incentivise the usage, growth and development of a live distributed network.

### Measure: More than 50% of today’s publicly listed tokens will be delisted.



## **9\. The search for sustainable token distribution strategies continues as
equity comes to dominate 2020 in The West**

Since the collapse of the ICO market and lacklustre returns from IEOs,
projects have been exploring alternative token distribution strategies that
seek to raise capital and align the interests of network participants. The
ideal distribution method would both solve for speculative intent, regulatory
implications, network deanonymization, market irrationality, and stakeholder
alignment. All sorts of exotic strategies have been proposed and tested like
the lock-drop, warlock, liquid airdrops and others. But in Western markets,
largely driven by conservatism in the US, it will become clear in 2020 that
the total pool of investors who can also become genuinely active network
participants is too small to raise enough capital for the full lifecycle of a
new protocol network.

Despite Europe having perhaps the most permissive regulatory environment for
tokens as a form of crowdfunding globally, its primary market made up of
angels, family offices and VCs, due to a history of seeing the US as where
tech companies go for later stage growth capital, will follow suite continuing
the trend of seeing equity as the main fundraising instrument and tokens as
the network reward instrument. Equity shareholders will just receive a portion
of the profits from network services as they would expect with any non-
tokenized Saas product.

However, this will continue to be in stark contrast to Asia where there is
still a heavy preference on tokens vs equity with a preference to quicker
paths to liquidity where we may even still see one one last hurrah for the ICO
in SouthEast Asia in growth markets like Thailand and Vietnam where retail
investors didn’t get burnt in 2018. Increasingly, projects will have to decide
if they invest their time in raising capital and building a presence in Asia
or The West, with all the associated trade-offs that come with that.

### Measure: Equity in The West becomes the dominant fundraising instrument
before network launch at 90% of money raised.



## **10\. Treasury funding for open-source permissionless networks will be
retrofitted despite backlash**

In 2019, the debate over EIP-2025 and the Zcash founders’ reward reignited the
long-standing debate on how open-source projects are sustainably funded.
Treasury funding as with Decred, Beam, Dash hasn’t won but without relying on
a rich benefactor, corporate generosity, or venture capital subsides, we still
don’t have a way to reward contributors to open-source projects. Gitcoin and
pooled funding like pooled cDAI feel like experiments rather than sustainable
business models. Policies like Harberger Taxes and NFT continuous auctions
will be discussed throughout 2020.

### Measure: 5 projects in the top 100 Y2050 market cap, to instigate a
treasury funding model as it becomes clear previous token funding cannot
sustain the project.



## **11\. DAOs are intellectually interesting, but still many years from
mainstream understanding or acceptance**

2019 was the year of the DAO with MolochDAO gaining the attention of the
industry, and Maker continuing to execute and deliver multi-collateral DAI.
But the real-world is still nowhere near ready for DAOs. Whilst definitely
intellectually interesting and almost certainly the precursor to a new type of
global digital organisational structure to compete with the inefficient
corporate built for a different age. But we have a very long way to go before
DAOs can go mainstream. And it is still not clear if and when a collective of
decision makers can outperform a brilliant entrepreneur like say CZ, Mark
Zuckerberg or Steve Jobs in a commercial context.

Being able to vote on how funds are spent, isn’t so much a technology problem
solved by DAOs, but rather a social problem that can be solved with non-
decentralized software in cooperative movements. In 2020, we imagine a
proliferation of DAOs limited to spending decisions, but they will be
ineffective and suffer badly from collusion leading to suboptimal outcomes.

### Measure: DAOs will stay limited to capital allocation vehicles and less
than $50 million will be allocated in 2020



## **12\. A breakout game will bring blockchain networks and cryptoassets to
the masses**

Gaming will be the break-out application area in 2020. We already have games
like Splinterlands on Steem; CardMaker: NatureTown on NEO; and My Crypto Heros
on Ethereum, but no break out games as of yet. Enjin looks like a good bet
with distribution through Blockchain KeyStore of the Galaxy S10 and Microsoft
Azure Heros using the platform. By the end of 2020 many of the pieces needed
for a break-out mainstream game will be there: high-performance platforms;
easier to use on and off-ramps for digital assets; and better digital asset
storage and distribution tools for gamers. So all that is left is distribution
and reaching gamers.

This will be accelerated by the ability for gamers to earn credits that can be
used in and possibly across games by renting out their GPU and CPU hardware to
run computational and rendering tasks which is why we recently began advising
Cudo.

### Measure: Valve with Steam and/or Epic through Unreal to launch a
blockchain-based service



## **13\. Synthetix: The Chainlink of 2020**

The project to watch will be Synthetix. With a16z publicly buying it up and
with $245 million Y2050 market cap, it’s certainly not an unknown, but I think
it will become as important to the DeFi space in 2020 as MakerDAO was in 2019.
As a synthetic asset platform that providing on-chain exposure to real-world
currencies, commodities, stocks, and indices. The early obvious use cases are
long and short positions to the price of other cryptoassets, but all sorts of
other exotic financial instruments can now be built in a permissionless and
trustless way.

### Measure: Synthetix will be to 2020 what Chainlink was to 2019.
Outperforming almost all over projects it will end the year above $700 million
market cap, up from circa $210 million today.



## **14\. Telegram to win the first battle of messaging apps**

With Klatyn (KakaoTalk) and Link Network (LINE) live, TON (Telegram),
Mobilecoin (Signal) and Libra sans stablecoin (Facebook) expected, 2020 should
begin to see real usage of blockchain-based platforms (Potentially BlueSky
from Twitter fits in here too). Telegram reaches about 200 million users a
month all of whom have opted into a messenger specifically differentiated on
privacy and security and many whom have been early adopters of crypto
projects. Even if TON has to return funds to US investors as part of a
settlement with the SEC, TON and the apps that run on top of the network will
find a ready-made audience in a way that Klatyn, LINE and Facebook likely
haven’t/won’t.

### Measure: By the end of 2020, TON will have the most monthly-active users
of any blockchain network.



## **15\. Enterprise: Corda dominates Hyperledger, Ethereum and Quorum**

Corda will emerge as the market leader in the enterprise blockchain market.
While consolidating the lead in the financial services market, R3 will
continue making inroads into other verticals like energy and
telecommunications. Enterprise-friendly services such as training, customer
services, and certification programmes will differentiate the platform driving
more usage which in turn will drive developers to build for the platform. In
2020, it may not be as sexy as building DeFi apps on Ethereum, but real
customers and real money will be made with Corda apps.

### Measure: Corda will overtake Hyperledger, Ethereum, and Quorum by market
share and become the market leader in enterprise blockchain.



## **16\. Web3 middleware/developer experience will be the hot new market**

To make smart contracting platforms and other types of decentralized software
more usable, middleware is critical. The DeFi middleware market has been built
out over the last few years providing service-oriented tools to developers so
they don’t have to deal directly with Ethereum or other base layers: 0x,
MakerDAO, Kyber, Augur, Compound, dydx, Uniswap, Nuo Network, DAOStack and
Aragon to name just a few. However, now similar middleware is being built out
on EOS with the likes of Newdex, EOSDAQ, EOSREX, etc. and Cosmos, Polkadot and
others will need to develop their own middleware ecosystem as they seek to
attract developers.

These are all protocol-specific middleware solutions but 2020 will see the
development of general-purpose middleware that connects in with numerous
blockchains, compute, storage and other computing resources. This is a massive
task today but as tooling for protocols develops in 2020, Web3
middleware/developer experience will emerge as the hot new crypto market. This
is especially important if unpermissioned networks wish to compete with
players like R3 who can offer enterprise grade levels of product support.

### Measure: The next Binance like blockchain unicorn success will be a
middleware company that comes to attention in 2020.



## **17\. East / West Divergence**

As suggested in previous predictions the more time we at Outlier have spent in
Asia this year, in particular China, the more we have come to believe there
will be a divergence between the East and West in blockchain, and more
specifically digital assets. Of course this is nothing new; there have always
been in effect two versions of The Web but the acceleration of adoption driven
by the Chinese central and provincial governments is staggering.

The great irony is whilst China itself formally pursues a path of permissioned
and untokenised blockchain, Bitcoin mining and several POS networks like EOS
are already dominated, and some argue controlled by Chinese companies.
Equally, the majority of exchanges and trading volume is still Chinese
originated and it is understood by Q2 of 2020 there will be a few national
champions formally given licenses, likely to operate initially in fairly
restricted ways, possibly out of free trading zones. We can also expect
various provinces and SOEs (State Owned Enterprises) to begin to champion
their own regionally based tokenised networks within central guidelines.

As we have already predicted Chinese Digital Currency Electronic Payment
(DCEP) will reach hundreds of millions of consumers overnight by forcing
adoption by dominant platforms, but this also further entrenches their
business models where in the West we like many believe Web 2.0 platforms will
be unbundled. Perhaps we will see a longer period of Web 2.5 in Asia or an
entirely different form of Web 3.0 but the outcome will lead to a battle for
not just technological but potential financial dominance.

### Measure: 3 Chinese exchanges are given official permission under license
to operate domestically under restrictions



## **18\. Europe becomes The West’s hub for blockchain projects**



Perhaps as a subset of prediction (17) there are many signs in 2019 that 2020
will see Europe begin to steal a march on the US as The West’s hub for
blockchain projects, in particular tokenised networks, to both finance and
base themselves. However, it is to be seen to what extent with Brexit, London
continues to be part of that narrative, it was previously the second most
popular city globally for early-stage blockchain financing.

This is all largely driven by the EUs determination to break away from the
last few decades of US hegemony over the internet what it sees as Silicon
Valley’s anti-social and extractive web monopolies, initially based on
concerns around data but now with Libra the very stability of it’s financial
system. Therefore, with the launch of several European funding initiatives
(including a blockchain + AI fund) complemented by new regulatory pushes (inc.
BAFIN the German regulator allowing its retail banks to hold and sell crypto)
it will begin to see the growth of a stronger secondary market within the
wider common economic zone with what is traditionally it’s more conservative
primary market following suit.

### Measure: European venture capital in blockchain companies was $700 million
in 2019 and will surpass the all time high of $850 million of 2018 to reach
$900 million in 2020



## Further Reading

  * [EIP-2025](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-2025.md), Github
  * [Chinese Digital Currency Electronic Payment (DCEP)](https://boxmining.com/dcep/), Boxmining
  * [The Evolution of Crypto Capital Markets: Part 2](https://messari.io/article/the-evolution-of-crypto-capital-markets-part-2), [Jack Purdy](https://twitter.com/jpurd17)
  * [The Evolution of Stablecoins: From Mastercoin to Libra](https://messari.io/article/the-evolution-of-stablecoins-from-mastercoin-to-libra), Ryan Watkins
  * [Compounding Utility Through Composability](https://messari.io/article/compounding-utility-through-composability), Wilson Withiam
  * [The DeFi Deja Vu](https://www.placeholder.vc/blog/2019/12/14/the-defi-dj-vu), Placeholder
  * [Fire Before Growth](https://www.placeholder.vc/blog/2019/10/22/fire-before-growth-the-likely-fate-of-ethereum-killers), Placeholder
  * Q219 Crypto Retrospective, Circle Research
  * The State of European Tech, Atomico
  * [A Look at Innovation in Bitcoin’s Technology Stack](https://medium.com/digitalassetresearch/a-look-at-innovation-in-bitcoins-technology-stack-7edf877eab14), Lucas Nuzzi
  * [A Comprehensive view of Ethereum 2.0 (Serenity)](https://medium.com/swlh/a-comprehensive-view-of-ethereum-2-0-serenity-5865ad8b7c62), sheinix
  * [Hard Problems in Cryptocurrency: Five Years Later,](https://vitalik.ca/general/2019/11/22/progress.html) Vitalik Buterin
  * [Exchanges Are Open Finance](https://multicoin.capital/2019/10/29/exchanges-are-open-finance/), [Kyle Samani](https://multicoin.capital/about#06946724-30da-566a-a165-ede995dcff77)
  * [The Separation of Time and State](https://multicoin.capital/2019/07/16/the-separation-of-time-and-state/), [Ryan Gentry](https://multicoin.capital/about#e13c03ef-4556-508a-a43b-3a8895f18d14)
  * [Central Banks and Distributed Ledger Technology: How are Central Banks Exploring Blockchain Today,](http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_Central_Bank_Activity_in_Blockchain_DLT.pdf) World Economic Forum
  * [Central bank digital currencies - design principles and balance sheet implications](https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/working-paper/2018/central-bank-digital-currencies---design-principles-and-balance-sheet-implications), Bank of England
  * [The Rise of Staking: From Theory to Building Large Infrastructure](https://research.binance.com/analysis/rise-of-staking), Binance Research
  * [Institutional Market Insights - 2nd edition](https://research.binance.com/analysis/institutional-insights-2nd-edition), Binance Research
  * [A history of Crypto Exchanges](https://blog.nomics.com/essays/crypto-exchanges-history/) - Nomics Team
  * [Illiquidity and bank run risk in DeFi ](https://medium.com/alethio/overlooked-risk-illiquidity-and-bank-runs-on-compound-finance-5d6fc3922d0d)- Alethio

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

