[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/813047369200&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Instadapp](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*Jdx_PVb-M-
wDOIBWGFLXhg.png)](https://medium.com/instadapp?source=post_page-----
813047369200--------------------------------)

Published in

[Instadapp

](https://medium.com/instadapp?source=post_page-----
813047369200--------------------------------)

[![Sowmay
Jain](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/2*EIXsRWhRSsce2xNnlPjsIQ.jpeg)](/@sowmay?source=post_page
-----813047369200--------------------------------)

[Sowmay Jain](/@sowmay?source=post_page-----
813047369200--------------------------------)

Follow

Dec 23, 2019

·

6 min read

# 2019 Highlights

First off, we would like to give a huge thanks to the DeFi community for their
wonderful support, and it has been a blast collaborating and working with this
space. As a team who has [benefitted tremendously from
DeFi](https://twitter.com/sowmay_jain/status/1179431875418345472) since the
early days, we are excited about the future, and even more excited to build it
together with everyone.

We had a great roller coaster year in 2019, fully focused on [building &
shipping](https://github.com/InstaDApp/all-things-
instadapp/blob/master/README.md) features to help solve important DeFi
problems, and today, we would like to do a quick recap of the key ideas we
launched over the past year, the milestones we have achieved along the way,
and lastly, explain our objectives for 2020.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*Ce1rl5xoERlybHNNe_BHmA.png)

## 1/ [DeFi Smart
Wallet](https://twitter.com/sowmay_jain/status/1106655279859404800)

After launching InstaDApp to improve the experience of managing the various
DeFi protocols, we quickly realized the fundamental limitations of the typical
Ethereum account. In particular, as it becomes easy for users to make sense of
and keep track of their assets across many protocols explodes.

As such, we introduced what we soon formalized as a Smart Wallet, which
aggregates major protocols and showcases a user’s assets across these
protocols using an underlying smart wallet layer. As such, we pioneered the
ability for users to use their smart wallet to minimize the hassle users would
face while moving from one protocol to another.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*vy_pmXerf3pebQVI)

Using this smart wallet layer allowed far greater programmatic innovation,
allowing us not only aggregated multiple protocols on a single interface, but
also opens up **several potential cross-protocol, or even cross stable coin
use cases.**

## 2/ [Simplifying Complex
Transactions](https://twitter.com/InstaDApp/status/1125476338733682689)

Two things are well known in the crypto market — the volatility of the assets
and the deep technical difficulties of managing them that follows. When ETH is
either plunging or spiking, (often in the span of minutes), it is very
technically difficult and time-consuming to perform many transactions needed
to save or leverage their position.

This results in a situation where many users did not or could not perform
them, even when it would have benefitted them greatly. To solve both of these
issues, we combined multiple steps it takes to perform complicated
transactions and combines them into a single transaction such as Leverage or
Save, allowing many more users to do them as well.

By simplifying complex transactions into a single atomic transaction, we made
the experience of managing assets significantly easier for users, and more
importantly, **made the power of DeFi accessible to many more individuals.**

## 3/ [Compound <> Maker Protocol
Bridge](https://twitter.com/InstaDApp/status/1148299303003119616)

Many users were affected when MakerDAO increased the stability fees. Along
with the high liquidation fee, many users were inclined to move their assets
to other protocols such as Compound. However, moving from protocol to protocol
becomes a cumbersome process, adding up to at least 6 transactions, and
requiring capital for liquidation and re-collateralization.

As such, we created a bridge between MakerDAO and Compound to enable users to
seamlessly move from one protocol to another. By removing the technical and
financial burden, this gave users a clear view about the advantages of each
protocol, enabling them to make informed and easy to execute decisions on
where to move their assets.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*joAXUPXj-zKOVznw9wC_qg.png)

The success of this bridge resulted in our first major growth spike, from 10K
ETH to more than 150K ETH, validating our belief that **portability between
DeFi protocols is an extremely important feature in this space.** Also, the
Protocol Bridge turns out to be the [#1 MKR
burner](https://twitter.com/ASvanevik/status/1201683380825395207) the most
number of MKR.

The importance of interoperability between protocols will grow in lockstep
with the growth of the DeFi ecosystem as well, as the diversity of markets
increases in returns, risk profiles, and purposes.

## 4/ [Fundraise](https://twitter.com/InstaDApp/status/1179045745921363968)

To help us continue our quest to make DeFi accessible to the masses, we raised
a seed round of a network of strategic investors, many of whom are leading
figures in the world of angel investing, cryptocurrency and decentralized
finance. We were, are and will continue to be incredibly grateful for their
belief and support — and will work hard to make DeFi accessible to the masses.

[

## Announcing $2.4 Million Seed Round

### InstaDApp is a DeFi portal that aggregates the major protocols using a
smart wallet layer and bridge contracts, making…

medium.com

](/instadapp/seed-round-503b689fc71c)

## 5/ [SAI<> DAI Migration
Bridge](https://twitter.com/InstaDApp/status/1200079870014849024)

The launch of the MCD represented a transition point for the DeFi ecosystem.
It was important this transition from Single-Collateral Dai to be successful
in order to be a testament to the desirable resilience and flexibility of the
DeFi space. MakerDAO did a beautiful job facilitating the migration from SAI
to DAI, and from CDPs to Vaults.

On our end, we noticed that there were **2 potential issues** that could cause
user problems and systemic challenges. **First** , was the likely low supply
of DAI in the migration contract, making it hard for big CDP users to migrate
to using vaults. **Second** , the high level of difficulty for Compound users
was high, given that they needed to have the pre-requisite SAI to liquidate
their holdings first.

Given that big CDPs account for the vast majority of SAI generated, while
Compound was the 2nd largest source of locked SAI, solving these problems was
not just important for these users, but for the ecosystem as well. In
particular, the inability for Compound migrations to happen could cause the
debt markets to freeze up, as well as cause insufficient SAI in the migration
contracts.

With the intent to simplify this transition for both users and the ecosystem,
**we launched the Migration Bridge** to effortlessly migrate to MCD without
hassle, regardless of where the assets might be. Like the protocol bridge,
this feature was warmly received by the ecosystem and DeFi users alike.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*b3mLDy7Fj0OCZzQ88ZQF1Q.png)

This launch also represented an important point for us, where we **expanded
the use of our smart wallet to enable cross-stablecoin transactions as well.**

As a result of ongoing progress, as well as the protocol bridge and migration
bridge, we successfully crossed 260K ETH managed using InstaDApp this month.

# 2020: Call For Collaboration

In 2019, we focused on solving UX problems for the users to simplifying
complex and cross-protocol transactions.

In 2020, we would love to start collaborating with fellow DeFi developers to
drive greater interoperability, portability, and accessibility in the space.

  * Interoperability (DeFi protocols to work together seamlessly)
  * Portability (Easily switch and optimize funds across platforms)
  * Accessibility (Developers to easily build and users to easily use)

We believe making progress on these problems will be crucial to the DeFi space
growing further in the years ahead. **To do so, we would be opening up
InstaDAapp incrementally to start collaborating with developers passionate
about DeFi.**

We will be setting up official developer communications in the near term, but
in the meantime, feel free to reach out if you have any ideas or thoughts
about the above!

# Thank you!

At InstaDApp, we observe the problems that occur across protocols and work
hard to remove the friction points that result from them. We believe that
reducing the technical obstacles to operating in this space will open doors to
more and more users to enter the wonderful world of DeFi.

Lastly, we would like to express our gratitude to everyone who has been part
of our journey. Special shoutout to all the people who have been supportive
throughout the journey. It was not possible without your consistent support.
We love this community ❤️

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Instadapp](/instadapp?source=post_page-----
813047369200--------------------------------)

Powerful DeFi Management Platform

[Read more from Instadapp](/instadapp?source=post_page-----
813047369200--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Panvala](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*kw9kz2Edaer6beACdKP_vg.png)](/@Panvala?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Panvala

](/@Panvala?source=post_internal_links---------0----------------------------)

## Niran Babalola: Making Progress The Status Quo

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*uKbVnZnK7CYbgr2SZkoM8w.png)](/@Panvala/niran-
babalola-making-progress-the-status-
quo-1d92af12b352?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![thimal
Basnayake](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*FiAaa92GvzbNr5QZ.jpg)](/@thimal199192?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[thimal Basnayake

](/@thimal199192?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## TELECOIN FUTURE GENERATION DECENTRALIZED PLATFORM.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*7E4AnkmmcHa7yW1vsPmnbw.png)](/@thimal199192/telecoin-
future-generation-decentralized-platform-
eb71c9ede7cf?source=post_internal_links---------1----------------------------)

[[![HyperPay](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*x5OcJT2H42sYKiW7HHSpTA.png)](/@hyperpay-
info?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

[HyperPay

](/@hyperpay-info?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Recap of the 5th DeFi Session of HyperPay Focus —YFII

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*RFiO8ziPEKHy_xpRfhaywQ.png)](/@hyperpay-
info/recap-of-the-5th-defi-session-of-hyperpay-focus-
yfii-51f6945685ef?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Blockchain Infinity
💬](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*gdPgO2_N5x6xvX860FCLQQ.jpeg)](/@blockchaininfi1?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Blockchain Infinity 💬

](/@blockchaininfi1?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## AMA RECAP: BLOCKCHAIN INFINITY X DINO EXCHANGE

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*f8_a5zR1K_n5s97C0U4YeQ.jpeg)](/@blockchaininfi1/ama-
recap-blockchain-infinity-x-dino-
exchange-285fa40eb4e?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Giulia
Balestra](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*Z-uPLs5cxs1G585kVbkGQg.jpeg)](/@giuliabalestra?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Giulia Balestra

](/@giuliabalestra?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

in

[UNHCR Innovation Service

](https://medium.com/unhcr-innovation-service?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

## Humanitarian innovation and regulatory sandboxes

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*joYhNiOP-
OGoKKPioKSwPg.png)](/unhcr-innovation-service/humanitarian-innovation-and-
regulatory-sandboxes-3430913aaf6a?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![CryptoCurrency](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Lzj-
UTv0M0ZFQv1ZbrXUzQ.jpeg)](/@cryptocurrency?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[CryptoCurrency

](/@cryptocurrency?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Privacy & Blockchain IV.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*swujr-FyQZTwR-
IbzRmrYQ.jpeg)](/@cryptocurrency/privacy-blockchain-
iv-4192197f3d1d?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![CryptoCurrency](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Lzj-
UTv0M0ZFQv1ZbrXUzQ.jpeg)](/@cryptocurrency?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[CryptoCurrency

](/@cryptocurrency?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## The biggest cryptocurrency scams in history (Part 3) — PlusToken

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*7De_Bq98zEEa-
Gs5)](/@cryptocurrency/the-biggest-cryptocurrency-scams-in-history-
part-3-plustoken-3a8075a0b8b4?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![QCP
Capital](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*CTBhnQ-0DcLPFz12X17pNw.png)](/@qcpcapital?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[QCP Capital

](/@qcpcapital?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Market Update: 12 Jan 2022

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*vD4ZN68xRJtOhmUyy6iTrw.jpeg)](/@qcpcapital/market-
update-12-jan-2022-a2d98f68205c?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----813047369200--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
813047369200--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
813047369200--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
813047369200--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
813047369200--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----813047369200--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----813047369200--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Finstadapp%2F2019-highlights-813047369200&source=post_page
--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Sowmay
Jain](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/2*EIXsRWhRSsce2xNnlPjsIQ.jpeg)](/@sowmay)

[

## Sowmay Jain

](/@sowmay)

616 Followers

Building Instadapp

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F5610fbf52484&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Finstadapp%2F2019-highlights-813047369200&newsletterV3=21786e9fd68f&newsletterV3Id=5610fbf52484&user=Sowmay+Jain&userId=21786e9fd68f&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Susan
Wickell](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*j3wEt_DxQHQyyE7HkU6MHA.jpeg)](/@Susan.Wickell?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------d4d08fe8_2354_46d7_a4a8_884814e738a7-------)

[Susan Wickell

](/@Susan.Wickell?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
d4d08fe8_2354_46d7_a4a8_884814e738a7-------)

in

[Helio

](https://medium.com/helio-fintech?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------d4d08fe8_2354_46d7_a4a8_884814e738a7-------)

## What is this Solana thing everyone is talking about? 🤔 Let us help you get
started!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*SG3ty0sng410Wx6FfjpqDQ.jpeg)](/helio-
fintech/what-is-this-solana-thing-everyone-is-talking-about-let-us-help-you-
get-started-d03303b1c6e8?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------d4d08fe8_2354_46d7_a4a8_884814e738a7-------)

[[![DiamondHandbag](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*_KboofRe1_0z_r0z0Evc3w.png)](/@diamondhandbag?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------d4d08fe8_2354_46d7_a4a8_884814e738a7-------)

[DiamondHandbag

](/@diamondhandbag?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
d4d08fe8_2354_46d7_a4a8_884814e738a7-------)

## What blockchain do we choose for our Diamond Handbag drop– Ethereum or
Solana?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*qRggx7An-0y4hWCvlSMDig.png)](/@diamondhandbag/what-
blockchain-do-we-choose-for-our-diamond-handbag-drop-ethereum-or-solana-
ed80fcce5360?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
d4d08fe8_2354_46d7_a4a8_884814e738a7-------)

[[![Yeti
Town](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*_QyHFTrbPMaTAeswlw6Puw.jpeg)](/@yetitown?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------d4d08fe8_2354_46d7_a4a8_884814e738a7-------)

[Yeti Town

](/@yetitown?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
d4d08fe8_2354_46d7_a4a8_884814e738a7-------)

## Bull or Bear Market — The future that lays ahead

](/@yetitown/bull-or-bear-market-the-future-that-lays-
ahead-e8f85ec9fcd4?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
d4d08fe8_2354_46d7_a4a8_884814e738a7-------)

[[![Christoph
Holz](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Qkqo6J0pkZ9kL4zb1mltcA.jpeg)](/@ChristophHolz?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------d4d08fe8_2354_46d7_a4a8_884814e738a7-------)

[Christoph Holz

](/@ChristophHolz?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
d4d08fe8_2354_46d7_a4a8_884814e738a7-------)

## Could Blockchain have prevented Oetzi’s Murder?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*jL7IdBiWG8_QNcV8KnbZ9A.jpeg)](/@ChristophHolz/could-
blockchain-have-prevented-oetzis-murder-b7e587b732ae?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------d4d08fe8_2354_46d7_a4a8_884814e738a7-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

