[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

3 Year Partnership with Imperial College’s Blockchain Lab

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

[mc4wp_form id='4618']

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/blog-
post-9.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/) [Lawrence Lundy
Joins Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/)

April 2016  

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/blog-
post-7.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-vc-to-
hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/) [Outlier
Ventures Becomes First VC To Hire ‘Head of Crypto-Economics’ With Appointment
of Eden Dhaliwal](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-
vc-to-hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/)

August 2017  

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# 3 Year Partnership with Imperial College’s Blockchain Lab

Posted by 3 Year Partnership with Imperial College’s Blockchain Lab - April
2017

[ __](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://outlierventures.io/3-year-
partnership-with-imperial-colleges-blockchain-lab) [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://outlierventures.io/3-year-
partnership-with-imperial-colleges-blockchain-lab&title=3 Year Partnership
with Imperial College’s Blockchain Lab) [
__](https://twitter.com/share?url=https://outlierventures.io/3-year-
partnership-with-imperial-colleges-blockchain-lab&text=3 Year Partnership with
Imperial College’s Blockchain Lab) [
__](https://telegram.me/share/url?url=https://outlierventures.io/3-year-
partnership-with-imperial-colleges-blockchain-lab&text=3 Year Partnership with
Imperial College’s Blockchain Lab)

The [Imperial College Centre for Cryptocurrency Research &
Engineering](http://www.imperial.ac.uk/cryptocurrency) (IC3RE) at Imperial
College London has joined forces with blockchain investment group
[outlierventures.io](https://outlierventures.io) to undertake a 3-year R&D
program focused on the convergence of industrial blockchain with other ‘deep
tech’ technologies like IoT, machine learning and autonomous robotics. The
idea is to help academia and corporations move rapidly from proof-of-concepts
to scaling commercial businesses.

The program was first conceived mid-2016 when both organisations began to
discuss the need for a holistic approach to innovation in blockchain, best
thought of as foundational to enabling other technologies on their own or in
combination to scale securely when applied to complex markets. Bringing
together world-leading experts and emerging talent in areas such as Big Data,
Machine Learning and Cryptography combined with experienced investors and
entrepreneurs was seen as a huge and unique advantage when compared to the
typical siloed approaches seen in the market.

Each year the program will focus on a single unifying theme, set by a joint
committee of IC3RE and Outlier Ventures staff, where it is felt convergence to
be most impactful to industry and society. The 2017-2018 program theme will be
Industry 4.0, with key topics including securing industrial 3D printing for
spare parts, IoT and automation of robotics. The program will feature
collaborations with a number of leading European manufacturers, IT and ERP
providers. Corporate partners from Outlier Ventures pioneering venture
platform will be invited to collaborate with students through applied research
to deliver solutions that meet their strategic business needs. It is the
ambition, where appropriate, these will be spun out into startups financed by
Outlier and its partners.

_Jamie Burke CEO of Outlier Ventures comments: ‘’From day one we want to align
all stakeholders needs; from students to the large corporations they want to
work with, as well as us as investors to make sure startups can quickly
establish product-market fit, secure investment and win key partners and
clients in order to rapidly scale into trading businesses’’._

The program will work across all key academic cycles throughout the year with
both undergraduate and postgraduate students working on briefs from Outlier
Ventures and its partners, allowing them to access some of the brightest minds
from both Imperial’s student body and IC3RE’s directors including: Prof
William Knottenbelt (Professor of Applied Quantitative Analysis in the
Department of Computing) _,_ Dr Catherine Mulligan (Research Fellow in
Imperial College Business School), and Dr Robert Learney (Dyson Fellow in the
Department of Bioengineering).

Imperial sought Outlier Ventures because of their strong reputation as early-
stage investors in the ecosystem who actively help startups in blockchain and
more recently in the field of convergence navigate technical, regulatory and
commercial risks and unknowns in this emergent web paradigm they believe to be
Web 3.0.

_William Knottenbelt, Co-Director of IC3RE comments: “We share Outlier
Venture’s vision of the potential benefits of the convergence of blockchain
technology with deep tech. We are looking forward to our joint exploration of
this exciting space.”_

Innovations expected to emerge from the program include machine-to-machine
payments, cryptographically unique and secure digital assets as well as
legally enforceable smart contracts.

**Notes to Editors:**

**About Outlier Ventures:**

Outlier Ventures was set up in 2013 to invest in and build blockchain startups
in the emerging Web 3.0 startup space. Since then having met with over 1,220
startups from around the world and invested in a growing portfolio of
companies it has refined its thesis to that of ‘blockchain enabled
convergence’, or just ‘Convergence’ for shorthand, following a [whitepaper
published in Oct 2016](https://outlierventures.io/convergence-wp).

This has led to a focus on connecting startups with incumbents and academia to
accelerate innovation and grow the industry through content and thought
leadership including a global network of events from Silicon Valley to Berlin,
Bangalore and Tokyo called [www.convergence.vc](http://www.convergence.vc)

For further information on Outlier Ventures contact:

Jamie Burke | CEO | jb@outlierventures.io |
[www.outlierventures.io](https://outlierventures.io) | www.convergence.vc

**About Imperial College London:**

Imperial College London is one of the world's leading universities. The
College's 16,000 students and 8,000 staff are expanding the frontiers of
knowledge in science, medicine, engineering and business, and translating
their discoveries into benefits for society.

Founded in 1907, Imperial builds on a distinguished past - having pioneered
penicillin, holography and fibre optics - to shape the future. Imperial
researchers work across disciplines to improve health and wellbeing,
understand the natural world, engineer novel solutions and lead the data
revolution. This blend of academic excellence and its real-world application
feeds into Imperial's exceptional learning environment, where students
participate in research to push the limits of their degrees.

Imperial collaborates widely to achieve greater impact. It works with the NHS
to improve healthcare in west London, is a leading partner in research and
education within the European Union, and is the UK's number one research
collaborator with China.

Imperial has nine London campuses, including its White City Campus: a research
and innovation centre that is in its initial stages of development in west
London. At White City, researchers, businesses and higher education partners
will co-locate to create value from ideas on a global scale.

[www.imperial.ac.uk](http://www.imperial.ac.uk)

**About IC3RE**

The Imperial College Centre for Cryptocurrency Research and Engineering
(IC3RE), was established in April 2015 in recognition of the potential for
blockchain and other kinds of distributed ledger technology to fundamentally
change the way human society deals with contracts, identity, patents,
copyright, votes, and more. The centre has already run a large number of
blockchain-related student projects and advised UK and international
governments on blockchain and distributed ledgers.

[www.imperial.ac.uk/cryptocurrency](http://www.imperial.ac.uk/cryptocurrency)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

