Toggle Navigation [ [![Concourse Open](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)
](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)

  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ConcourseOpen "Twitter")
  * [Discord](https://discord.gg/mzDxADE "Discord")
  * [Projects](https://concourseopen.com "Projects")

## Settle Portfolio

Modular portfolio management supporting Digital Asset and Crypto Derivatives.

Open App

30 Days of ETH - September 2019

# 30 Days of ETH - September 2019

##### October 1, 2019

![](/blog/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/30-days-hero.png)

Every month the list of things the Ethereum community has shipped grows
longer. And, this September was no exception. Sometimes it's nice to just to
stop and reflect on the hard work going into all the projects, tools,
services, and products in the Ethereum ecosystem.

_[Click here](https://concourseopen.typeform.com/to/FYZX5p) if you'd like to
be included in next month's installment of 30 Days of ETH._

#### Pool Dai - Sept 2

[Pool Dai](https://zeframlou.github.io/pool-dai/) is a no-loss donation
protocol enabling people to pool money together, lend it out, and donate the
interest to a cause. This smart contract written by the founder and lead
developer of Betoken Lou Zefram is [live on the
mainnet](https://twitter.com/boredGenius/status/1168441905950015488).

#### Jade Explorer - Sept 4

[Jade Explorer](https://twitter.com/shanejonas/status/1169313278364811264) is
a minimal block explorer with no database, configurable JSON-RPC URL, and
optional service-runner feature. The goal of Jade Explorer is to provide a
resource for EVM-based network information and block exploration.

#### PEG Protocol / USDB - Sept 4

[Peg Protocol](https://medium.com/peg-network/introducing-the-peg-protocol-
cfc1c4002574) allows users to issue stablecoins backed by any ERC-20 tokens.
In addition to unveiling the protocol, its first use-case launched in the form
of [USDB](https://github.com/zachdoty/peg-usdb/), a stable version of BNT.

#### PopLocker - Sept 5

[PopLocker](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/d019na/announcing_the_public_release_of_poplocker/)
is an Ethereum DApp browser / wallet and an alternative to Metamask targeted
at a mainstream audience funded by a grant from the Ethereum Foundation. Its
wallet can be upgrade to a _SmartLocker_ , non-custodial smart contract wallet
with meta-transaction support which can be linked between multiple devices.

#### CDP Automation - Sept 5

Are you losing sleep over your CDP? DeFi Saver's [CDP
Automation](https://medium.com/defi-saver/automatic-liquidation-protection-
and-leverage-increase-is-now-live-in-defi-saver-beta-e53b6194b35a) may be able
to help you relax with its automatic CDP liquidation protection and
leveraging.

#### The Yield Protocol - Sept 5

[The Yield
Protocol](https://twitter.com/danrobinson/status/1169689525536215040) lets you
construct zero-coupon bonds for Ethereum tokens called yTokens. These bonds
have fixed terms, are tradeable via Uniswap, and have interest rates set by
the market which can be used to form a yield curve for any token.

#### PAXG - Sept 5

Stablecoin platform Paxos [launched a new
token](https://www.theblockcrypto.com/post/38553/paxos-embraces-gold-pegged-
crypto-as-sea-change-in-gold-trading) backed by gold. The new PAXG token is
pegged to the price of an ounce of gold and was approved by the New York
Department of Financial Services.

#### Nethermind Data Marketplace - Sept 6

The Nethermind team
[released](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/d0fflj/nethermind_data_marketplace_try_it_and_get_goeth/)
the testnet of their Nethermind Data Marketplace on the Goerli testnet. Check
out its UI and experiment with the marketplace by following [this
link](http://downloads.nethermind.io/).

#### Uniswap.Ninja - Sept 6

This clever [Uniswap
frontend](https://www.reddit.com/r/UniSwap/comments/d0hjwc/uniswapninja_decentralized_token_listing_and/)
pulls its list of tokens from a Token Curated Registry (TCR). This means that
users curate which tokens can and should be listed preventing fake or
incompatible tokens from harming the user experience.

#### Token Sets Market Caps - Sept 6

Who doesn't like data? [This analytics site](http://theta-data.io/) lets you
explore the supply, price, and market cap of token sets deployed to the Set
Protocol.

#### Salad - Sept 6

[Salad](https://blog.enigma.co/salad-coin-mixing-with-enigma-1c565adee79c) is
a prototype of a coin-mixer built using Enigma's L2 private computation
solution. As a result, Salad doesn't require a withdrawal interaction and
currently costs significantly less gas (~250,000 gas for a 10 person mix) than
your typical ZK-SNARK mixer.

#### Truffle Contract Size Plugin - Sept 7

Sometimes you can tell a book by its cover. This Truffle
[plugin](https://github.com/IoBuilders/truffle-contract-size) displays the
contract size of all or a selection of your smart contracts in kilobytes.

#### ERC721 WooCommerce plugin - Sept 7

WooCommerce is very popular among WordPress sites. And now, with[ this
plugin](https://wordpress.org/plugins/cryptocurrency-product-for-
woocommerce/#description) you can accept Ether, ERC-20, or ERC-721 tokens as
payment or even sell them in your WooCommerce shop.

#### Podcrypt - Sept 8

Podcrypt [rolled out its app
beta](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/d115ic/podcrypt_beta_has_been_released/)
that allows listeners to setup a recurring donation that is automatically
split between the podcasts they listen to. All you have to do to start
receiving donations for your podcast is put your Ethereum address or ENS name
into the podcast description.

### ETHBoston Hackathon - Sept 8

_A few noteworthy hackathon entries in alphabetical order. See full list of
submissions[here](https://ethboston.devpost.com/submissions)._

**3nable** - [link](https://devpost.com/software/3nable) - A tool which allows
message (or transaction) signatures to occur in a secure environment instead
of pulling keys into local browsers

**Creadao** - [link](https://devpost.com/software/credao) - A way to airdrop
tokens/reputation in an Aragon DAO based on their github contributions to
onboard web2 users to web3

**Ethercam** - [link](https://devpost.com/software/ethercam) - A camera that's
a standalone "IoT" object that a user can approach, log into, and take a photo
with. Photos are then saved to IPFS and hash is submitted to a public timeline
of all photos taken on the camera.

**Stakeable** - [link](https://devpost.com/software/stakeable) - A sharing
economy marketplace where an individual can earn by offering a possession up
as a public good to another person

**SwanDAI** - [link](https://devpost.com/software/swandai) - A synthetic asset
that tracks the deviation of DAI's price from its dollar peg in an
exponentially increasing fashion

**SweepStake!** - [link](https://devpost.com/software/sweepstake) - A game
that lets you stake money on a game of prisoner's dilemma with many players

**Tribute** - [link](https://devpost.com/software/tribute) - A [web3 UI
dashboard](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ibe8av_poU8&feature=youtu.be) that
calls the rDAI smart contracts and allows users and paid content publishers to
transact using directed rDAI interest

**VendETH** - [link](https://devpost.com/software/vendeth) - A vending machine
that accepts ETH and ERC20 tokens powered by smart contracts, Coinbase
Commerce, and Raspberry Pi 4 controller

**ZeroPool** - [link](https://devpost.com/software/zeropool) - An anonymous
multi-asset pool implemented as a smart contract with zero-knowledge proofs
suited for private asset storage and swaps. More info
[here](https://ethresear.ch/t/zeropool-explanation/6122)

* * *

#### UMA's Synthetic Token Builder - Sept 11

Create a token that follows the price of the CNY in DAI or even one pegged to
the performance of the S&P 500. [UMA's Synthetic Token
Builder](https://medium.com/uma-project/announcing-the-uma-synthetic-token-
builder-8bf37c645e94) let's you create a token on the Ethereum blockchain
which follows any metric, just choose a "price feed" and deposit DAI.

#### Graphene - Sept 11

Graphene v1.0, [was released this
month](https://blog.golemproject.net/graphene-v1-0-has-been-released/) by
Golem in collaboration with Intel, ITL and researchers Don Porter and Chia-Che
Tsai. The Graphene library OS is a project for running unmodified Linux
applications in a trusted execution environment (TEE) on an untrusted host
platform.

#### Santander's $20M Bond Trade - Sept 12

Spanish bank Santander became the first institution to [settle a
bond](https://www.coindesk.com/santander-settles-both-sides-of-a-20-million-
bond-trade-on-ethereum) from start to finish on the Ethereum blockchain. In
the words of John Whelan, head of digital investment banking at Santander’s
corporate and investment bank, “I think it’s becoming apparent that ethereum
is just part of the internet.”

#### Robo-Advisor for Yield (RAY) - Sept 12

Live on the mainnet, [RAY](https://medium.com/@staked/https-medium-com-staked-
announcing-robo-advisor-for-yield-ray-9d7395e84769) automatically shifts you
funds (ETH, DAI or USDC) to the earn the highest available yield in DeFi
lending markets. Staked, the team behind RAY, plans to integrate other ways of
earning such as the DAI savings rate, market-making, and staking.

#### Remix Workshops - Sept 13

For those looking to learn Solidity, this one is for you. [Remix
Workshops](https://medium.com/remix-ide/intro-to-remix-workshop-c14733bdd60c),
a fully decentralized tool for Remix IDE, are like Codeademy tutorials right
with Remix. And, the best part is it uses Ethereum smart contracts, 3Box,
Swarm, and IPFS to access and store all the data involved.

#### Torque - Sept 14

[Torque](https://medium.com/bzxnetwork/introducing-torque-borrowing-made-
simple-8eb494925d16) is a service that offers indefinite-term fixed rate loans
built using Fulcrum's iTokens lending pools and bZx Network's margin calling
system. The platform hopes to draw in users with its built-in ENS support and
no percentage penalties for margin calls.

#### Nexus Mutual Tracker - Sept 16

This[ tracker site](https://nexustracker.io) let's you explore the active
smart contract coverage purchased by Nexus Mutual users. Search through all
cover transactions or examine total active covers for each supported contract.

#### Terminal - Sept 17

Terminal [released v1.0](https://blog.terminal.co/intro-to-terminal/) of their
toolkit which allows you to develop, test, and manage Ethereum artifacts &
infrastructure in a unified workspace. Terminal treats every Ethereum artifact
and piece of infrastructure can be a composable and reusable building block
hoping to encourage open source collaboration.

#### FanChain - Sept 17

HOT TAKES! GET YOUR HOT TAKES! SportsCastr, a sports streaming platform,
launched platform which encourages fan engagement with their favorite players
called [FanChain](https://decrypt.co/9305/sportscastr-nba-david-stern-will-
pay-you-crypto-for-hot-takes). Maybe it'll make being an armchair quarterback
a bit more rewarding.

#### Matter Labs' ZK Rollup - Sept 18

Matter Labs unveiled the code behind its implementation of [ZK
Rollup](https://vitalik.ca/general/2019/08/28/hybrid_layer_2.html) dubbed
Franklin.

#### DeFi Strategies - Sept 18

From the maker of DeFi Tutorials comes [DeFi
Strategies](https://twitter.com/nodarj/status/1174371094419116032?s=21). This
application helps DeFi users choose effective strategies for investing in DeFi
starting with 3 strategies at launch: Aggressive, Moderate, and Conservative.

#### Atstake - Sept 18

Atstake [released](https://twitter.com/elliot_olds/status/1174410109557956608)
a set of arbitration smart contracts which allows you to create two-person
agreements where one or both of you stake ETH or ERC20 tokens. The arbiter and
terms of the agreement are agreed upon beforehand. Also, the team plans to
support arbitration solutions like Aragon and Kleros in the future.

#### Marlin - Sept 19

[Marlin](https://www.benthamsgaze.org/2019/09/19/a-marlin-is-one-of-the-
fastest-snarks-in-the-ocean/) is a zero-knowledge proving system which boasts
fast verification times for ZK proofs without the use of batching. Marlin is
designed for situations where batching proofs is not possible. For more
details, check out [this implementation](https://github.com/scipr-lab/marlin)
for pre-processing zk-SNARKs.

#### Connext v2.0 - Sept 23

Connext v2.0 [hit the mainnet this
month](https://medium.com/connext/connext-v2-0-is-on-mainnet-b818864d3687),
now utilizing Counterfactual state channels. The Connext team re-designed
various aspects of their layer 2 solution in an attempt to minimize trust
assumptions and move towards a universal state channel standard for Ethereum.
You can find the full code [here](https://github.com/ConnextProject/indra).

#### Dolomite - Sept 23

[Dolomite](https://medium.com/dolomite-official/dolomite-dex-launching-monday-
september-23rd-5aa9e27953e5) is the first major DEX to be built on Loopring,
an interoperable privacy solution. It comes with lots of bells and whistles
like Wyre integration, negative maker fees (that pay you), and it even
utilizes CREATE2.

#### MyDeFi - Sept 23

[MyDeFi](https://medium.com/@BaptisteGreve/mydefi-your-dashboard-for-
decentralized-finance-as-launched-80b231204a0) is a free smart phone app that
helps you visualize your DeFi activity. DApps like Compound, Maker, and Token
Sets were supported at launch with plans to support Augur, Synthetix, and dYdX
soon.

#### Beam Sync - Sept 24

Beam me up Scotty! The next evolution of node fast sync is here. [Beam
Sync](https://medium.com/@jason.carver/intro-to-beam-sync-a0fd168be14a) can in
theory sync your node 100,000 times faster than fast sync. Overall, Beam Sync
boasts better feedback and quicker results when running an Ethereum node
locally.

#### Impactio - Sept 24

[Impactio](https://media.consensys.net/consensys-and-wwf-team-up-to-launch-
impactio-f9780d168d6e) is a project curation and funding platform aiming to
tackle the UN's Sustainable Development Goals created by ConsenSys in
partnership with the WWF. Built on Ethereum, it uses tokens to maximize
collaboration and bring social impact to life.

#### UniswapEX - Sept 25

Did I hear someone say limit orders on Uniswap? As a matter of fact, you did.
Agustín Aguilar alongside Ignacio Mazzara [built
UniswapEX](https://twitter.com/Agusx1211/status/1176961051964923906) which
allows you to create limit orders on Uniswap.

#### Ethereum RPi 4 node - Sept 28

Have you ever wanted to run a full Ethereum node but weren't sure where to
begin? Well, you should check out Grégoire Jeanmart's [awesome
guide](https://twitter.com/GregJeanmart/status/1177889986118590464) on how to
build an Ethereum node with a Raspberry Pi 4 for around $160.

#### Brownie v1.0.0 - Sept 29

You've heard of delicious frameworks like Truffle and Ganache but what about
Brownie? [Brownie](https://github.com/iamdefinitelyahuman/brownie) is a Python
framework for Ethereum smart contract testing, debugging, interaction and
deployment.

#### Hodor - Sept 30

[Hodor](https://medium.com/matter-labs/meet-hodor-matter-labsstark-prover-
implementation-c759a6ef4c98) is an open STARK implementation well-suited for a
narrow application like evaluation proofs [for verifiable delay
functions](https://vitalik.ca/general/2018/07/21/starks_part_3.html). You can
find the beta a STARK-proving engine library [on
Github](https://github.com/matter-labs/hodor).

#### Matic β-Mainnet - Sept 30

Matic Network [released the second
iteration](https://blog.matic.network/matic-beta-mainnet-is-here/) of its
layer 2 blockchain platform which utilizes the Plasma framework. The update
comes with loads of new upgrades like plasma predicates, smaller plasma
functions without the need to relaunch the plasma contract on the Ethereum
blockchain.

### Concourse Open Community Updates

#### [![](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2019/09/Selection_183-300x300.jpg)](https://dex.ag/)

#### Introducing the X Blaster

Not only does DEX.AG get you the best price for your trade across 11 different
DEXes. DEX.AG’s new [X Blaster](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-x-
blaster/) feature splits your large order into smaller ones across several
exchanges to reduce any possible slippage in price. [See how it works for
yourself](https://dex.ag/)!

Also, developers can now take advantage of DEX.AG for Contract Fillable
Liquidity (CFL) with our new proxy contracts. See our [API /
SDK](https://docs.dex.ag/proxy-contract/).

#### Zero to DeFi

When the next bull run comes, save yourself the hassle of answers a billion
questions for friends and family. Just shoot them [a link to this beginner's
guide](https://defipulse.com/blog/zero-to-defi-cdai/) which will guide them
through Ethereum basics all the way to earning passive income via Compound
Finance.

#### DeFi Pulse adds bZx Network to its Rankings

We're pleased to welcome [bZx](https://defipulse.com/bzx), the lending and
trading protocol behind Fulcrum and Torque, to our leaderboard. bZx currently
ranks number 14 in terms of TVL(USD) with $1.9M in total value locked.

#### New Entries included in The DeFi List

Check out the new September additions to The DeFi List including: Coinbase
Wallet (sign up for Coinbase account
[here](https://www.coinbase.com/join/daley_e6)), DexWallet, Liquidity.Network,
and Matic Network. Explore the entire [list here](https://defipulse.com/defi-
list).

Thanks for reading and if you have any questions about one of our Concourse
Open Constructions let us know in our [Discord](https://discord.gg/Wz5rQJb).

* * *

Previous installments of 30 Days of ETH:
[August](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-august-2019/) -
[June](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-june-2019/) -
[July](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-july-2019/)

* * *

##### ⛰ [Concourse Open Community​](https://concourseopen.com/)

##### ⛽ [ETH Gas Station](https://ethgasstation.info/)

##### 🐿 [DEX.AG](https://dex.ag/)

##### 🍇 [DeFi Pulse](https://defipulse.com/)

##### [🎣 ](http://data.concourseopen.com)[DeFi Pulse
Data](http://data.defipulse.com)

##### 💸 [Whisp](https://whisp.money/)

##### 🔥 [Rek.to](https://rek.to/)

## Post navigation

[Previous

DEX.AG 101: What to do when you're really in a rush but you wanna kill it with
your trading

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-x-blaster/)

[ Next

30 Days of ETH - October 2019

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-october-2019/)

Search for: Search

#### Recent Posts

  * [DEX.AG Unveils User Balances Page, Transaction History Page, and many other UX/UI Upgrades Inspired by Feedback](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-ui-upgrades-balances-history/)
  * [Push it to the Limit with DEX.AG - NEW Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and Connect Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-limit-orders/)
  * [DEX.AG Daredevil Update: Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and New Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-daredevil-update-limit-orders/)
  * [Trade DEXes like a Pro with DEX.AG - real time charts, prices, and order books](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-pro-trading/)
  * [DEX.AG: Expert Trading Mode with Charts](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-expert-trading-beta/)

#### Archives

  * [March 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/03/)
  * [February 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/02/)
  * [January 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/01/)
  * [December 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/12/)
  * [November 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/11/)
  * [October 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/10/)
  * [September 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/09/)
  * [August 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/08/)
  * [July 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/07/)
  * [June 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/06/)
  * [May 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/05/)
  * [April 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/04/)

#### Categories

  * [Business](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/business/)
  * [Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/community/)
  * [Concourse Open Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-community/)
  * [Concourse Open Constructions](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-constructions/)
  * [ConcourseQ](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourseq/)
  * [DAO](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dao/)
  * [Developer Docs](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/developer-docs/)
  * [DEX](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex/)
  * [DEX.AG](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex-ag/)
  * [Ecosystem](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/ecosystem/)
  * [Exchange](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchange/)
  * [Exchanges](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchanges/)
  * [Explainers](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/explainers/)
  * [Humans](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/humans/)
  * [New Features](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/new-features/)
  * [Protocol](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/protocol/)
  * [Technology](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/technology/)
  * [Terrible Token Tuesday](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/terrible-token-tuesday/)
  * [Trading](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/trading/)
  * [Whisp](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/whisp/)

#### Meta

  * [Log in](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-login.php)
  * [Entries feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/feed/)
  * [Comments feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/comments/feed/)
  * [WordPress.org](https://wordpress.org/)

[![Settle](/blog/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com)

(C) 2021 Concourse Open

