Toggle Navigation [ [![Concourse Open](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)
](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)

  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ConcourseOpen "Twitter")
  * [Discord](https://discord.gg/mzDxADE "Discord")
  * [Projects](https://concourseopen.com "Projects")

## Settle Portfolio

Modular portfolio management supporting Digital Asset and Crypto Derivatives.

Open App

30 Days of ETH - December 2019

# 30 Days of ETH - December 2019

##### January 7, 2020

![](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/30-days-
hero.png)

Ethereum had an amazing year of growth both as a community and in the
technological sense. Pat yourselves on the back for the many network upgrades
completed successfully and each and every project that launched in 2019 with
exhilarating speed. So to cap it off, here's the final installment of 30 Days
of ETH for 2019.

_[Click here](https://concourseopen.typeform.com/to/FYZX5p) if you'd like to
be included in next month's installment of 30 Days of ETH._

#### imBTC - Dec 2

Meet Tokenlon's new token[ imBTC](https://medium.com/imtoken/imbtc-a-new-kind-
of-bitcoin-31b2e6ba1741), tokenized Bitcoin on Ethereum which earns an income
share of the Tokenlon platform fees. Tokenlon DEX is based on 0x with a 0.3%
imBTC transaction fee which is shared with imBTC holders.

#### Loopring Protocol v3 - Dec 4

Loopring [launched version 3](https://medium.com/loopring-protocol/loopring-
deployed-protocol-3-0-on-ethereum-a33103c9e5bf) marking the first ZK Rollup
DEX protocol on Ethereum mainnet. ZK Rollups enhanced by
[EIP-2028](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2028) can improve DEX
performance by magnitudes to potentially 700x. Check out [this
thread](https://twitter.com/loopringorg/status/1212121775334658048?s=20)
calculating 34x cheaper settlement cost already.

#### Azure Heroes - Dec 4

Microsoft collaborated with Enjin to highlight outstanding community members
dubbed [Azure Heroes](https://www.microsoft.com/en-ie/azureheroes/) by handing
out collectible badger NFTs. This pilot program introduced many of Western
Europe's best Azure developers to the capabilities of the Ethereum blockchain.

#### Beacon Chain Explorer - Dec 5

ETH2 is coming soon™️. Don't believe me? Check out Etherscan's new [Beacon
Chain Explorer](https://beacon.etherscan.io/) which tracks Prysmatic Labs'
ETH2 testnet. You can find interest data like, as of writing this, there are
over 700 active validators.

#### EY's Nightfall update - Dec 5

EY
[released](https://old.reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/e6h91g/nightfall_update_batch_scale_with_zero_knowledge/)
the first version of its ZK transaction batching allowing up to 20
transactions at once. "For those of you keeping score at home, this represents
a 400-fold improvement in gas efficiency since our OpsChain Public Edition
prototype just over one year ago."

#### ZK Sync - Dec 5

Matter Labs [unveiled ZK Sync](https://medium.com/matter-labs/introducing-zk-
sync-the-missing-link-to-mass-adoption-of-ethereum-14c9cea83f58), a ZK Rollup-
based trustless scaling and privacy solution for Ethereum. The goal is VISA-
like scaling that's as secure as layer 1 with instant economic finality. Check
out their new [testnet](https://demo.matter-labs.io/explorer/) and [demo
wallet](https://demo.matter-labs.io/client/login) on Rinkeby.

#### Istanbul Upgrade - Dec 7

As of block 9069000, the Ethereum network successfully upgraded to
[Istanbul](https://blog.ethereum.org/2019/11/20/ethereum-istanbul-upgrade-
announcement/). Learn more about [how Istanbul affects
DeFi](https://defipulse.com/blog/how-ethereums-istanbul-network-upgrade-
affects-defi/).

#### Donuts-on-Ethereum - Dec 7

r/EthTrader
[launched](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethtrader/comments/e70bjc/donutsonethereum_launched/)
their DAO along with a new ERC20 DONUT. DONUTs enable EthTraders to make polls
on and off-chain, tip each other, buy the top banner on the subreddit, and
other special membership features like the ability to use GIFs.

#### OpenZeppelin Test Environment - Dec 8

This [new library](https://forum.openzeppelin.com/t/blazing-fast-contracts-
testing/1873) from OpenZepplin tests your smart contracts at "blazing fast"
speeds. If you've written smart contracts, you've undoubtedly come across
OpenZepplin's libraries. "Test Environment is the last piece of the puzzle,
allowing you to test your contracts."

#### Ethereum Studio - Dec 11

[Ethereum Studio](https://studio.ethereum.org/) is a brand new tool for
developers who want to dive head first into Ethereum. With templates for
popular use cases like ERC20 tokens, NFT collectibles, etc, this web-based IDE
is might to bring you up to speed faster than ever. Check out this [intro
video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8cJmSCHNKrg) to see for yourself!

#### Filecoin Testnet - Dec 11

Filecoin protocol reached a new milestone with [the
launch](https://filecoin.io/blog/filecoin-testnet-is-live/) of its first
public test network. Operating on the 'lotus' implementation of Filecoin, this
testnet is meant to iron out any bugs before the eventual launch of Filecoin.

#### Sablier - Dec 13

With Sablier, time is money literally. Sablier allows you to stream money over
over time at a constant rate. Version 1 of the money streaming DApp
[launched](https://twitter.com/SablierHQ/status/1205533344886411264) on the
Ethereum mainnet with support for DAI, SAI, USDC, cDAI, and cUSDC.

#### Tornado Cash v2 - Dec 17

Another step forward for Ethereum privacy. Tornado Cash v2, an update to the
Ethereum mixer, [is live](https://medium.com/@tornado.cash/tornado-cash-
version-2-has-been-released-8c739d3706df). ERC20 token support (starting with
DAI), higher deposit limits, and cheaper withdrawals are among the new
improvements that arrived with version 2.

#### Ad-free Forbes with Unlock Protocol - Dec 17

Forbes [deployed 2 locks on the Unlock Protocol](https://unlock-
protocol.com/blog/forbes-ads-free/) for the first time. In other words, you
can now unlock an ads-free experience paid for in ETH directly on Forbes
crypto section with any web3-enabled browser.

#### Gnosis Safe Multisig - Dec 18

If you've been around long enough, you've probably heard of Gnosis multi-sig
wallets which stores more than $1B in assets. [Gnosis Safe
Multisig](https://unlock-protocol.com/blog/forbes-ads-free/) is its successor
built with DeFi in mind. As proof of their confidence, the Gnosis team has
committed to monthy deposits of 10k ETH into the new Safe contracts.

#### First Chainlink oracles for Synthetix price feeds - Dec 18

The first stage of the Synthetix-Chainlink integration [is live on the
Ethereum mainnet](https://blog.synthetix.io/chainlink-decentralizes-first-
wave-of-synthetix-price-feeds/)! Seven of Synthetix's FX and commodity price
feeds are now powered by oracles from a number of Chainlink nodes. More assets
are planned to go live in the future contingent on the operational success of
these initial asset feeds.

#### necDAO - Dec 18

[necDAO](https://medium.com/necdao/necdao-launches-on-mainnet-claim-
reputation-c11b991560e7) built on the DAOstack framework launched its
bootstrap phase where NEC holders can claim reputation. The new DAO has full
control over the use of funds with the goal of benefiting the Nectar/DeversiFi
ecosystem.

#### EY releases third-gen ZK tech into public domain - Dec 19

The title sort of says it all on this one. However for those of you who
haven't been keeping up, EY
[released](https://www.ey.com/en_gl/news/2019/12/ey-releases-third-generation-
zero-knowledge-proof-blockchain-technology-to-the-public-domain) the latest
version of its ZKP technology into the public domain in an effort to increase
enterprise adoption of the Ethereum public blockchain.

#### ZimDAI - Dec 21

This fascinating whitepaper
[ZimDAI](https://old.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/edmol8/the_people_of_zimbabwe_are_trapped_in_an_abusive/)
details a plan for widespread adoption of DAI to ease Zimbabwe's financial
uncertainties. The author is seeking any feedback which can help improve the
plan.

#### WeDEX - Dec 21

WeDEX [launched](https://twitter.com/loopringorg/status/1208494624920276992)
as the first DEX built on Loopring v3 and the first working ZK Rollup DEX on
the Ethereum mainnet. With the power of Rollups, WeDEX processed 24,461 trades
in their first 8 hours without completely spiking gas prices.

#### Enigma Testnet - Dec 23

For the first time, secret nodes were able to connect to Enigma's [Discovery
testnet](https://blog.enigma.co/announcing-the-launch-of-enigmas-first-
networked-testnet-359fd816cb69). This marks the first public testnet for the
Enigma Protocol. And, we're all one step closer to a private Ethereum.

#### KeeperDAO - Dec 27

December introduced us to [KeeperDAO](https://keeperdao.com/), an on-chain
liquidity underwriter for decentralized finance, built on top of the Ethereum
blockchain. "[KeeperDAO](https://medium.com/keeperdao/introducing-keeperdao-
an-on-chain-liquidity-underwriter-dbb63731f4a5) is a protocol that
economically incentivizes pooled participation in ‘keeper’ strategies."

#### MetaFactory - Dec 31

[MetaFactory](https://medium.com/@themetafactory/an-introduction-to-
metafactory-1fbaed8723e) is a crowdfunding platform for the creation of
community-owned brands with an initial focus on fashion/apparel. The platform
enables fractional ownership of IP with a dedicated DAO for each brand.

### Concourse Open Community Updates

![](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/concourse-data-
twitter-1024x512.png)

#### Concourse Data

In December, we launched [Concourse Data](https://data.concourseopen.com/), a
dashboard allowing access to the data from services such as ETHGasStation,
DeFi Pulse, and Rek.to. It’s a simple, all-in-one subscription to all the data
from Concourse Open's APIs combined, easily download in CSV or viewed in the
dashboard.

#### DEX.AG integrates direct sUSD trades via Synthetix smart contracts

> NEW feature: <https://t.co/Go3YOioyW5> users can now compare prices and
> trade sUSD directly from
> [@synthetix_io](https://twitter.com/synthetix_io?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw).
>
> Our X Blaster even splits large trades across exchanges if it improves the
> price of your trade.
>
> Check it out for yourself at <https://t.co/m1uawnxImx>
> [pic.twitter.com/8LbydlVhhQ](https://t.co/8LbydlVhhQ)
>
> -- DEX.AG Token Wire (@DEXAG_TokenWire) [December 5,
> 2019](https://twitter.com/DEXAG_TokenWire/status/1202645610022617088?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw)

Thanks for reading and if you have any questions about one of our Concourse
Open Constructions let us know in our [Discord](https://discord.gg/Wz5rQJb).

* * *

Previous installments of 30 Days of ETH:
[November](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-november-2019/) -
[October](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-october-2019/) -
[September](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-september-2019/) -
[August](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-august-2019/) -
[June](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-june-2019/) -
[July](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-july-2019/)

* * *

##### ⛰ [Concourse Open Community​](https://concourseopen.com/)

##### ⛽ [ETH Gas Station](https://ethgasstation.info/)

##### 🐿 [DEX.AG](https://dex.ag/)

##### 🍇 [DeFi Pulse](https://defipulse.com/)

##### [🎣 ](http://data.concourseopen.com)[DeFi Pulse
Data](http://data.defipulse.com)

##### 💸 [Whisp](https://whisp.money/)

##### 🔥 [Rek.to](https://rek.to/)

## Post navigation

[Previous

Introducing DeFi Pulse Data - An All-In-One Solution Combining Industry-
Leading APIs

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/introducing-defipulse-data/)

[ Next

DEX.AG: 5x Lower Slippage with Real Time Prices

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-5x-lower-slippage-real-time-prices/)

Search for: Search

#### Recent Posts

  * [DEX.AG Unveils User Balances Page, Transaction History Page, and many other UX/UI Upgrades Inspired by Feedback](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-ui-upgrades-balances-history/)
  * [Push it to the Limit with DEX.AG - NEW Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and Connect Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-limit-orders/)
  * [DEX.AG Daredevil Update: Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and New Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-daredevil-update-limit-orders/)
  * [Trade DEXes like a Pro with DEX.AG - real time charts, prices, and order books](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-pro-trading/)
  * [DEX.AG: Expert Trading Mode with Charts](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-expert-trading-beta/)

#### Archives

  * [March 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/03/)
  * [February 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/02/)
  * [January 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/01/)
  * [December 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/12/)
  * [November 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/11/)
  * [October 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/10/)
  * [September 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/09/)
  * [August 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/08/)
  * [July 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/07/)
  * [June 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/06/)
  * [May 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/05/)
  * [April 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/04/)

#### Categories

  * [Business](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/business/)
  * [Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/community/)
  * [Concourse Open Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-community/)
  * [Concourse Open Constructions](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-constructions/)
  * [ConcourseQ](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourseq/)
  * [DAO](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dao/)
  * [Developer Docs](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/developer-docs/)
  * [DEX](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex/)
  * [DEX.AG](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex-ag/)
  * [Ecosystem](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/ecosystem/)
  * [Exchange](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchange/)
  * [Exchanges](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchanges/)
  * [Explainers](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/explainers/)
  * [Humans](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/humans/)
  * [New Features](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/new-features/)
  * [Protocol](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/protocol/)
  * [Technology](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/technology/)
  * [Terrible Token Tuesday](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/terrible-token-tuesday/)
  * [Trading](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/trading/)
  * [Whisp](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/whisp/)

#### Meta

  * [Log in](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-login.php)
  * [Entries feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/feed/)
  * [Comments feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/comments/feed/)
  * [WordPress.org](https://wordpress.org/)

[![Settle](/blog/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com)

(C) 2021 Concourse Open

