Toggle Navigation [ [![Concourse Open](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)
](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)

  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ConcourseOpen "Twitter")
  * [Discord](https://discord.gg/mzDxADE "Discord")
  * [Projects](https://concourseopen.com "Projects")

## Settle Portfolio

Modular portfolio management supporting Digital Asset and Crypto Derivatives.

Open App

30 Days of ETH - October 2019

# 30 Days of ETH - October 2019

##### November 1, 2019

![](/blog/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/30-days-hero.png)

It feels like we say this every month, but it is true: October was a busy
month for the Ethereum community. From Devcon5 in Osaka to the announcement of
multi-collateral Dai, changes to ETH2.0 specs, and many many more launches and
events.

Conferences are cool, but do you know what it's like in the private VIP area?
We thought you all would like to know, so we left the cameras rolling in the
VIP lounge at the DEXDay Forum this past week. Here's what we caught:

And now, here's the monthly wrap up you came here to see.  
_[Click here](https://concourseopen.typeform.com/to/FYZX5p) if you'd like to
be included in next month's installment of 30 Days of ETH._

#### Pools.fyi - Oct 1

[Pools.fyi](https://pools.fyi) is a site that helps you find and analyze the
performance of Uniswap liquidity pools. This site covers the details of
individual asset pools, trading history, and tracks their annualized returns
from trading fees.

#### BitDEX - Oct 1

[BitDEX](https://twitter.com/UMAprotocol/status/1179045704918011906?s=20) is a
decentralized alternative to popular margin trading platform BitMEX. Designed
by the team behind UMA Protocol, BitDEX requires no on-chain price feed which
allows almost all computation to run off-chain.

#### Oasis Trade - Oct 2

[Oasis Trade](https://blog.makerdao.com/oasis-trade-is-live/), successor to
Eth2Dai, launched on the mainnet this month. The new Oasis was created to
provide trading liquidity for Multi-Collateral DAI. At launch, users can trade
BAT, REP, ETH, and ZRX against DAI.

#### Buidler EVM - Oct 2

Sick of seeing the that pesky 'Transaction reverted' message while coding
Solidity? [Buidler EVM](https://medium.com/nomic-labs-blog/better-solidity-
debugging-stack-traces-are-finally-here-dd80a56f92bb) is a Ganache alternative
that includes a fully featured Solidity-aware stack traces implementation.
Spend less time scratching your head with clear error messages for your smart
contracts.

#### ZoKrates Remix Plugin - Oct 3

Harnessing the "black magic" of zkSNARKs in your smart contracts just got a
bit easier. ZoKrates, a toolbox for zkSNARKs on Ethereum, is available as a
plugin for Remix IDE. Learn more [here](https://medium.com/coinmonks/zokrates-
zksnarks-on-ethereum-made-easy-8022300f8ba6).

#### WeiDai - Oct 3

[WeiDai](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakerDAO/comments/dcq300/weidai_a_wrapper_for_dai_against_inflation/)
is an ERC20 wrapper of Dai dubbed a thriftcoin, designed to encourage a
culture of saving and protect it from inflation. Creator Justin Goro wrote a
two part series ([1](https://medium.com/weidaithriftcoin/value-creation-in-
weidai-25a992bf02ee) and [2](https://medium.com/weidaithriftcoin/value-
creation-in-weidai-1a05eecbef56)) explaining how WeiDai works and creates
value.

#### Burner Wallet 2 - Oct 3

You've heard of money legos but what about "wallet legos?" [Burner Wallet
2.0](https://medium.com/@dmihal/introducing-the-burner-wallet-2-542604dc8d28)
is a set of interface-agnostic libraries for handling the blockchain
communication. The goal was to make a burner wallet with modular components
and features to encourage experimentation.

#### Vulcan Swap - Oct 5

If you DCA but like to stay in control of your funds, logically you might like
[Vulcan Swap](https://www.vulcanswap.com/). It's a DApp deployed on the
Rinkeby testnet that let's you place decentralized time-based cost average
trade orders.

#### Sacramento Kings 'Call the Shot' app - Oct 7

The Sacramento Kings became the first NBA team to[ implement a rewards
program](https://www.nba.com/kings/news/sacramento-kings-and-blockparty-
launch-nbas-first-blockchain-driven-token-power-predictive) built on the
Ethereum blockchain in partnership with Blockparty. Fans can earn points and
rewards by playing the NBA’s first predictive gaming application "Call the
Shot." Additionally, The Kings, in partnership with CryptoKaiju, will be
[giving away rare vinyl toy collectibles tied to ERC-721
NFTs.](https://www.nba.com/kings/blog/sacramento-kings-partner-cryptokaiju-
launch-first-physical-crypto-collectible-professional)

#### OpenZKP - Oct 7

Inspired by STARK proof-of-concept StarkDEX, OpenZKP is a fully open-source
Rust implementation of zero-knowledge proofs (ZKPs). You can find the OpenZPK
library [here](https://github.com/0xProject/OpenZKP#openzkp).

#### UniswapDEX - Oct 7

Same old Uniswap backend, fancy new frontend.
[UniswapDEX](https://uniswapdex.com/) is a web interface for Uniswap
[developed by the Shardus
team](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethtrader/comments/delak5/new_uniswap_interface_uniswapdexcom/)
with an expanded set of features including market data, custom token
addresses, and more.

#### UniPig - Oct 8

[Uniswap in collaboration with Plasma
Group](https://twitter.com/UniswapExchange/status/1181470959498227712?s=20)
built a L2 demo of Uniswap called [UniPig](https://unipig.exchange/) built
using optimistic roll-ups Running on the Ropsten testnet (Istanbul update),
UniPig's capable of ~250 TPS and if tuned properly could achieve ~2000 TPS.

#### Lexon - Oct 8

For those of you who get lost in code,
[Lexon](http://demo.lexon.tech/apps/editor/) is a program language that's
human readable written in natural language instead of code. The goal is to
merge law and automation letting anyone to write agreements and business logic
into smart contracts.

#### EthDNS - Oct 8

Meet [EthDNS](https://medium.com/the-ethereum-name-
service/ethdns-9d56298fa38a), a bridge between web2 and web3. EthDNS let's you
access IPFS-backed decentralized sites and dapps through the traditional DNS.

#### Vertigo - Oct 9

[Vertigo](https://medium.com/swlh/introduction-into-mutation-
testing-d6512dc702b0) is a mutation testing tool for smart contracts that
catch bugs slip through the cracks despite the best unit testing. Mutation
Testing evaluates your unit tests by creating mutations of your smart contract
and then measuring how many "mutants" survive your tests.

#### Complete Knowledge (CK) proofs - Oct 9

[Complete Knowledge (CK)
proofs](https://twitter.com/phildaian/status/1181822995993681921?s=20) allow a
user to demonstrate that they _really_ have control of secret data, and the
data isn't shackled by SGX or MPC. It's a way to protect users from bribery or
collusion in cryptographic protocols.

#### StablePay - Oct 10

With beta live on the mainnet,
[StablePay](https://medium.com/@stablepayio/stablepay-beta-is-live-on-mainnet-
eb4db47ebebd) takes any payments or donations you receive and converts them to
either your choice of DAI or cDAI. Audit and final version coming soon.

#### Ethereum.World - Oct 10

[Ethereum.World](https://ethereum.world/) is an interface designed to
accelerate the adoption of Ethereum apps launched by Ethereum co-founder Mihai
Alisie. The goal is to create a new kind of social network, making it simple
and enjoyable to interact with DApps.

#### Perth Mint Gold Token - Oct 11

InfiniGold launched its [Perth Mint Gold
Token](https://www.perthmint.com/media-infinigold-pmgt.aspx) (PMGT), an ERC20
token backed by GoldPass certificates issued by The Perth Mint guaranteed the
Government of Western Australia.

#### Wyre V2 - Oct 15

[Wyre V2](https://blog.sendwyre.com/wyre-onramps-solved-b5ea0bdae361)
simplifies the crypto onboarding process in its new update. Instead of
stopping users dead with KYC/AML Wyre utilizes the information you've provided
to Apple Pay or Google Pay. So in just a few taps users can purchase crypto
from their phone.

#### DDEX Margin Trading - Oct 16

DDEX [rolled out](https://medium.com/hydro-protocol/new-ddex-margin-trading-
lending-platform-is-live-9f9731ff63ae) its new platform with margin trading
and lending after two months of closed beta testing. You can margin trade with
up to 5x leverage or lend assets to earn interest. It even has a pro mode with
advanced features like limit orders, stop-limit orders, and full position
adjustment.

#### HKDai - Oct 18

[HKDai](https://twitter.com/ASvanevik/status/1185042866726301697?s=20) is a
cryptocurrency pegged to the Hong Kong Dollar and backed by Dai. It's intended
to be a perfect fit for bankless Hong Kong residents who want to transact in a
familiar currency on top of Ethereum. This neat experiment is live on the
Ropsten testnet.

#### ERC20 verifier tool - Oct 18

Every once in a while you'll come across a token in the wild that claims to be
an ERC20 but actually fails to meet the standard. And, boy is it frustrating.
OpenZepplin built [this handy tool](https://erc20-verifier.openzeppelin.com/)
to verify whether a given smart contract complies with the ERC20 standard.

#### Subspace - Oct 18

[Subspace](https://our.status.im/introducing-subspace-js-reactive-dapp-
development-library/) is a framework agnostic JS library that provides methods
to track, subscribe, and react to events, changes to the state of smart
contracts, and address balances. It can be used in browser, node, and native
script environments and stays synced by saving the state to a local database.

#### Dai Card v2 - Oct 18

Connext [released](https://medium.com/connext/dai-card-on-
connext-v2-0-eed923c52de2) Dai Card v2 with faster deposit and withdraw times.
Additional changes include supporting transfers to offline recipients,
conditional payment types, and state backup and recovery.

#### Supersonic - Oct 19

The aptly named "[Supersonic](https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/1229)" is a new
transparent zk-SNARK system which boasts no trusted setup and superior prover
time, proof size, and verification time.

#### LSDai - Oct 20

No need to fret over fluctuating interest rates. Built with rDAI, LSDai
markets [are live](https://lsdai.market/) letting hedge your interest rate by
longing or shorting the Compound's Dai supply rate.

#### TruSat - Oct 22

ConsenSys Space is bring the moon to ETH. [TruSat](https://www.trusat.org/) is
an open source prototype built on Ethereum to track satellites and space
debris. It's step one on the path to harnessing Ethereum to create space data
markets and combat space traffic issues.

#### STLD - Oct 23

To the victor goes the spoils.
[STLD](https://medium.com/@stldexchange/introducing-stld-
exchange-1e6a15f8221d) provides instant-payout for Augur prediction market
winners, supporting a wide range of markets that are broadcast ahead of time.

#### Aave Protocol - Oct 24

Aave's [public testnet](https://medium.com/aave/the-aave-protocol-released-on-
public-testnet-612de00f04dc) of its lending protocol is live on Kovan.
Supported functions include perpetual loans, short term fixed rate loans, and
a new type of loan called Flash Loans. Flash loans let you take out an
uncollateralized loan instantly, but it must be repaid in the same transaction
else it reverts. It's an awesome feature that can be used to take advantage of
unique arbitrage opportunities.

#### DeFiZap - Oct 28

[DeFiZap](https://twitter.com/NodarJ/status/1188843009800114177?s=20) is a
smart contract that auto-spreads incoming deposits across multiple DeFi
protocols liked Compound and Fulcrum based on pre-set allocations, bypassing
many manual steps. You can send ETH to a Zap contract of your choosing and
receive allocated tokens.

#### PLONK - Oct 28

Permutations over Lagrange-bases for Oecumenical Noninteractive arguments of
Knowledge or PLONK for short is a universal fully-succinct zk-SNARK
construction system with significantly improved prover run time compared to
Sonic. Learn more [here](https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/953.pdf).

#### eth.build - Oct 28

Visual learners rejoice! Austin Griffith
[shipped](https://twitter.com/austingriffith/status/1188839160137707520?s=20)
his latest project called [eth.build](https://eth.build/), a graphical web3
sandbox. It's the sort of thing you have to experience for yourself, so give
it a try!

#### Universal Login - Oct 31

You've seen those "Sign in with Google" buttons. Universal Login wants to
replicate this one login for every app experience for Ethereum DApps. The beta
version of [Universal Login](https://medium.com/universal-ethereum/universal-
login-beta-is-live-heres-how-you-can-apply-7386890c2e0d) is live on the
mainnet. Check out this [live demo](https://beta.jarvis.network/welcome) of
the beta.

### Concourse Open Community Updates

#### DEX.AG ships new updates and lists new tokens

We added an option to [DEX.AG](http://DEX.AG) where users can adjust the max
slippage on their trade as well as enter custom slippage. We've replaced
Eth2Dai with the new Oasis Trade which supports more token pairs. Within the
past few weeks, DEX.AG listed the following tokens: sETH, DGD, XCHF, RPL,
RING, CBI, DATA, and LEND.

Thanks for reading and if you have any questions about one of our Concourse
Open Constructions let us know in our [Discord](https://discord.gg/Wz5rQJb).

* * *

Previous installments of 30 Days of ETH:
[September](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-september-2019/) -
[August](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-august-2019/) -
[June](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-june-2019/) -
[July](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-july-2019/)

* * *

##### ⛰ [Concourse Open Community​](https://concourseopen.com/)

##### ⛽ [ETH Gas Station](https://ethgasstation.info/)

##### 🐿 [DEX.AG](https://dex.ag/)

##### 🍇 [DeFi Pulse](https://defipulse.com/)

##### [🎣 ](http://data.concourseopen.com)[DeFi Pulse
Data](http://data.defipulse.com)

##### 💸 [Whisp](https://whisp.money/)

##### 🔥 [Rek.to](https://rek.to/)

## Post navigation

[Previous

30 Days of ETH - September 2019

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-september-2019/)

[ Next

30 Days of ETH - November 2019

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-november-2019/)

Search for: Search

#### Recent Posts

  * [DEX.AG Unveils User Balances Page, Transaction History Page, and many other UX/UI Upgrades Inspired by Feedback](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-ui-upgrades-balances-history/)
  * [Push it to the Limit with DEX.AG - NEW Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and Connect Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-limit-orders/)
  * [DEX.AG Daredevil Update: Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and New Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-daredevil-update-limit-orders/)
  * [Trade DEXes like a Pro with DEX.AG - real time charts, prices, and order books](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-pro-trading/)
  * [DEX.AG: Expert Trading Mode with Charts](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-expert-trading-beta/)

#### Archives

  * [March 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/03/)
  * [February 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/02/)
  * [January 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/01/)
  * [December 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/12/)
  * [November 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/11/)
  * [October 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/10/)
  * [September 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/09/)
  * [August 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/08/)
  * [July 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/07/)
  * [June 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/06/)
  * [May 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/05/)
  * [April 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/04/)

#### Categories

  * [Business](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/business/)
  * [Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/community/)
  * [Concourse Open Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-community/)
  * [Concourse Open Constructions](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-constructions/)
  * [ConcourseQ](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourseq/)
  * [DAO](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dao/)
  * [Developer Docs](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/developer-docs/)
  * [DEX](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex/)
  * [DEX.AG](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex-ag/)
  * [Ecosystem](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/ecosystem/)
  * [Exchange](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchange/)
  * [Exchanges](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchanges/)
  * [Explainers](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/explainers/)
  * [Humans](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/humans/)
  * [New Features](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/new-features/)
  * [Protocol](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/protocol/)
  * [Technology](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/technology/)
  * [Terrible Token Tuesday](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/terrible-token-tuesday/)
  * [Trading](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/trading/)
  * [Whisp](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/whisp/)

#### Meta

  * [Log in](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-login.php)
  * [Entries feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/feed/)
  * [Comments feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/comments/feed/)
  * [WordPress.org](https://wordpress.org/)

[![Settle](/blog/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com)

(C) 2021 Concourse Open

