Toggle Navigation [ [![Concourse Open](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)
](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)

  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ConcourseOpen "Twitter")
  * [Discord](https://discord.gg/mzDxADE "Discord")
  * [Projects](https://concourseopen.com "Projects")

## Settle Portfolio

Modular portfolio management supporting Digital Asset and Crypto Derivatives.

Open App

30 Days of ETH - November 2019

# 30 Days of ETH - November 2019

##### December 3, 2019

![](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/30-days-
hero.png)

The year is slowly winding down to a close, but that hasn't stopped the
Ethereum community from shipping projects big and small. Let's take a look at
November's batch of new tools, DApps, and projects.

_[Click here](https://concourseopen.typeform.com/to/FYZX5p) if you'd like to
be included in next month's installment of 30 Days of ETH._

#### Burn Signal - Nov 5

[Burn Signal](https://blog.burnsignal.io/what-is-burn-signal/) is a general
purpose signalling experiment where participants burn ETH to signal choice in
a quadratic voting system.

#### Dune Analytics - Nov 5

For the data lovers among us, [Dune
Analytics](https://twitter.com/DuneAnalytics/status/1191670567964991488?s=20)
allows you to make dashboards full of human-readable smart contract data. Make
custom dashboards packed with charts powered by simple SQL queries.

#### RenVM Chaosnet - Nov 6

Ren Protocol's [RenVM Chaosnet](https://medium.com/renproject/renvm-chaosnet-
launch-2ed875a5d701) went live this month with cross-chain interoperability
for Ethereum, Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, and ZCash.

#### rDAI - Nov 7

Now [live on the
mainnet](https://twitter.com/rDAI_dao/status/1192457554661715973),
[rDAI](https://app.rdai.money/) let's you redirect the interest you earn on
Compound to another address. Whether you choose to redirect your interest to
charity or your hot wallet, rDAI's a DApp worth checking out.

#### Quadratic Moloch - Nov 7

If you're thinking MolochDAO with quadratic voting, you're correct. Democracy
Earth forked the original Moloch code to create [Quadratic
Moloch](https://github.com/DemocracyEarth/quadratic-moloch) which supports the
optional use of quadratic voting.

#### Ethereum Studio - Nov 8

Ethereum.org shipped a new [Developer landing
page](https://ethereum.org/build/) along with the new beginner friendly IDE
[Ethereum Studio](https://studio.ethereum.org/). The new IDE walks beginners
through templates like minting starter ERC-20 and creating a Crypto Pizza
ERC-721 collectible game.

### ETHWaterloo Hackathon – Nov 10

_A few noteworthy hackathon entries in alphabetical order. See full list of
submissions[here](https://ethwaterloo2.devpost.com/submissions)._

**Connexion** - [link](https://devpost.com/software/connexion-vy3a9c) - An
ENS-connected message service in Metamask

**DeFi Custody Wallet** - [link](https://devpost.com/software/dc-wallet) - A
smart contract wallet inside Metamask with Dead's man switch

**E.TH.PhoneHome** - [link](https://devpost.com/software/eth-p2p-voip-e-th-
phonehome) - An Eth P2P VOIP that makes calls on the Ethereum Network

**Muh Options** - [link](https://devpost.com/software/muh-options) - Peer-to-
peer options issuance and trading on Kovan

**Sheetcoin** - [link](https://devpost.com/software/sheetcoin) - A snarky
submission that uses Google Sheets as a Ethereum sidechain manager

**Wallet Notify** - [link](https://devpost.com/software/wallet-notify) - A
standardized way of sending push notifications to Ethereum wallets

* * *

#### Brave 1.0 - Nov 13

Brave Software [announced](https://brave.com/brave-launches-next-generation-
browser/) the launch of Brave Browser 1.0 this month. During its beta release,
Brave has reached 8.7 million monthly active users across Windows, macOS,
Linux, Android, and iOS, in 52 different languages. This privacy-oriented
Chrome competitor aims to bring Ethereum to the mainstream.

#### Poop Exchange - Nov 13

Built using UMA Protocol, experiment
[Poop.Exchange](https://twitter.com/hal2001/status/1194743066764161024) wants
to combat the issue of public defecation in cities like San Francisco. ERC-20
"Shit coins" would be issued to city residents inversely tied to the number of
poop sightings. If public poopings went down, the value of the coins goes up.

#### imBTC - Nov 14

imToken's Tokenlon DEX launched a tokenized Bitcoin called
[imBTC](https://medium.com/imtoken/imbtc-a-new-kind-of-bitcoin-b1924f9bec62)
which also shares the 0.3% platform fees with token holders. The goal is to
provide an incentive to users contributing BTC liquidity to DeFi.

#### Multi-Collateral Dai - Nov 18

The Maker community made a historic step this month with the launch of Multi-
Collateral DAI on the mainnet. The Multi-Collateral Dai upgrade enabled users
to open vaults using BAT in addition to ETH. Additionally, DAI holders can now
earn interest via the new Dai Savings Rate.

#### Sai2Dai.xyz - Nov 18

Watch the historic transition from Single-Collateral DAI (now called SAI) to
Multi-Collateral DAI live using [Sai2Dai.xyz](https://sai2dai.xyz/) built by
[DeFi Italy](https://twitter.com/defiitaly).

#### DAI-HRD - Nov 19

This cheeky named token [DAI-HRD](https://medium.com/@keydonix/dai-hrd-token-
hold-rated-dai-dfd3fe491d83), AKA HODL Rated DAI, let's you have your cake and
eat it too. You deposit DAI, the DAI-HRD contract deposits your DAI into
Maker's Dai Savings Rate contract, and then you get DAI-HRD tokens to store,
send, or spend.

#### Ethereum Ecosystem Support Program - Nov 19

The Ethereum Foundation opens applications for its new [Ecosystem Support
Program](https://blog.ethereum.org/2019/11/19/Ecosystem-Support-Program-call-
for-applications/). The Ecosystem Support Program team's dedicated to
connecting applicants with the best resources to help them grow and mature.

#### OriginSwag - Nov 20

Check out [OriginSwag](https://medium.com/originprotocol/built-on-origin-a-
decentralized-shopify-alternative-888adc4198b0), a free decentralized, open
source alternative to Shopify, hosted entirely on IPFS with an ENS domain.
Customer and order details are encrypted with PGP before being uploaded to
IPFS. And then, the seller can download and decrypt the customer info to
fulfill their order.

#### Aragon Court - Nov 21

With a security audit under its belt and the [release of
v1.0](https://github.com/aragon/aragon-court/releases/tag/v1.0.0), Aragon
Court and its native ANJ token are considered production-ready. [Aragon
Court](https://blog.aragon.one/aragon-network-deploy/) serves as a new digital
jurisdiction for sovereign individuals and organizations and will soon be
proposed as the official Aragon Network DAO.

#### Fidelty ERC-1404 - Nov 21

Fidelity’s Research & Development arm created the [Bits and Blocks
Club](https://medium.com/tokensoft/fidelity-labs-completes-proof-of-concept-
with-tokensoft-bd18cc8161d) powered by ERC-1404. TLDR: it's a closed-loop
rewards system designed to encourage employees to attend internal events and
other activities which serves as an example of how smart contracts can enforce
compliance.

#### Beaconchain block explorer- Nov 21

Peruse Prysmatic Labs' staking testnet with the [first ever
explorer](https://www.beaconcha.in/) for the upcoming eth2 beacon chain. The
Bitfly team plans make the development of the explorer open source from the
start.

#### Matic Counter Stake - Nov 27

November [kicked off Stage 0](https://blog.matic.network/getting-ready-to-run-
validator-nodes-on-the-matic-testnet/) of Matic Network's incentivized staking
testnet. Stage 1 will soon begin where users will have the chance to earn 3
million mainnet MATIC tokens for maintaining a testnet validator.

#### Maple - Nov 28

Maple is [now
live](https://twitter.com/maplefinance/status/1200018554336079872?s=20) on the
mainnet. Users of Maple issue and/or invest in crypto bonds called
[SmartBonds](https://medium.com/maple-finance/introducing-maple-1e160ab0bcef).
The initial focus is on Compound cTokens allowing users to speculate on the
rise or fall of Compound interest rates.

### Concourse Open Community Updates

#### [![](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2019/12/Selection_322.jpg)](https://defipulse.com/defi-
lending)

#### New IPY metric on DeFi Pulse

DeFi Pulse introduced [Interest Per Year](https://defipulse.com/defi-lending),
or IPY for short, a new metric only possible with DeFi created to track the
performance of DeFi lending markets. Imagine IPY like the speedometer for DeFi
measuring the speed at which interest is accruing in DeFi lending protocols
given the borrow rate and outstanding debt at that moment.

The new [DeFi Lending](https://defipulse.com/defi-lending) page on DeFi Pulse
supports a variety of assets including DAI, USDC, ETH, REP, ZRX, WBTC, and BAT
with lending data from Compound, Maker, dYdX, and Fulcrum.

#### DeFi Pulse adds DDEX to its DeFi Rankings

This month, DeFi Pulse [added DDEX](https://defipulse.com/ddex) to its
rankings coming in at #14 with $1.6M total value locked into to its new margin
trading and lending platform.

#### DeFi Pulse updates for Multi-Collateral Dai

DeFi Pulse [shipped a new
update](https://twitter.com/defipulse/status/1196541272019759104) for Multi-
Collateral Dai which added SAI and DAI together in most metrics and introduced
new lending markets and the Dai Savings Rate to DeFi Pulse's [Earn
Income](https://defipulse.com/income) and [DeFi
Lending](https://defipulse.com/defi-lending) pages

#### DEX.AG lists new tokens

[DEX.AG](https://DEX.AG/) listed over 30 new tokens including DIP, GEN, IDRT,
MATIC, POA20, RHOC, SALT, TAUD, TGBP. THKD, TRST, and WCK.

Thanks for reading and if you have any questions about one of our Concourse
Open Constructions let us know in our [Discord](https://discord.gg/Wz5rQJb).

* * *

Previous installments of 30 Days of ETH:
[October](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-october-2019/) -
[September](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-september-2019/) -
[August](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-august-2019/) -
[June](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-june-2019/) -
[July](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-july-2019/)

* * *

##### ⛰ [Concourse Open Community​](https://concourseopen.com/)

##### ⛽ [ETH Gas Station](https://ethgasstation.info/)

##### 🐿 [DEX.AG](https://dex.ag/)

##### 🍇 [DeFi Pulse](https://defipulse.com/)

##### [🎣 ](http://data.concourseopen.com)[DeFi Pulse
Data](http://data.defipulse.com)

##### 💸 [Whisp](https://whisp.money/)

##### 🔥 [Rek.to](https://rek.to/)

## Post navigation

[Previous

30 Days of ETH - October 2019

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-october-2019/)

[ Next

Introducing DeFi Pulse Data - An All-In-One Solution Combining Industry-
Leading APIs

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/introducing-defipulse-data/)

Search for: Search

#### Recent Posts

  * [DEX.AG Unveils User Balances Page, Transaction History Page, and many other UX/UI Upgrades Inspired by Feedback](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-ui-upgrades-balances-history/)
  * [Push it to the Limit with DEX.AG - NEW Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and Connect Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-limit-orders/)
  * [DEX.AG Daredevil Update: Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and New Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-daredevil-update-limit-orders/)
  * [Trade DEXes like a Pro with DEX.AG - real time charts, prices, and order books](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-pro-trading/)
  * [DEX.AG: Expert Trading Mode with Charts](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-expert-trading-beta/)

#### Archives

  * [March 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/03/)
  * [February 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/02/)
  * [January 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/01/)
  * [December 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/12/)
  * [November 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/11/)
  * [October 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/10/)
  * [September 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/09/)
  * [August 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/08/)
  * [July 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/07/)
  * [June 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/06/)
  * [May 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/05/)
  * [April 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/04/)

#### Categories

  * [Business](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/business/)
  * [Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/community/)
  * [Concourse Open Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-community/)
  * [Concourse Open Constructions](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-constructions/)
  * [ConcourseQ](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourseq/)
  * [DAO](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dao/)
  * [Developer Docs](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/developer-docs/)
  * [DEX](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex/)
  * [DEX.AG](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex-ag/)
  * [Ecosystem](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/ecosystem/)
  * [Exchange](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchange/)
  * [Exchanges](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchanges/)
  * [Explainers](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/explainers/)
  * [Humans](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/humans/)
  * [New Features](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/new-features/)
  * [Protocol](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/protocol/)
  * [Technology](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/technology/)
  * [Terrible Token Tuesday](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/terrible-token-tuesday/)
  * [Trading](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/trading/)
  * [Whisp](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/whisp/)

#### Meta

  * [Log in](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-login.php)
  * [Entries feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/feed/)
  * [Comments feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/comments/feed/)
  * [WordPress.org](https://wordpress.org/)

[![Settle](/blog/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com)

(C) 2021 Concourse Open

