  * [Home](/)
  * [Contact](/contact)
  * [Services](/services)
  * [Projects](/projects)
  * [Community](/community)
  * [Blog](/blog)

Menu

#  [![ScopeLift](//images.squarespace-
cdn.com/content/v1/54b81e72e4b0fee4b01a42e9/1581018368646-GMT0JDHOVLSGDECYFQVQ/SCOPELIFT-
long-cropped.png?format=1500w)](/)

Street Address

Philadelphia, PA

Phone Number

Your Custom Text Here

# [![ScopeLift](//images.squarespace-
cdn.com/content/v1/54b81e72e4b0fee4b01a42e9/1581018368646-GMT0JDHOVLSGDECYFQVQ/SCOPELIFT-
long-cropped.png?format=1500w)](/)

  * [Home](/)
  * [Contact](/contact)
  * [Services](/services)
  * [Projects](/projects)
  * [Community](/community)
  * [Blog](/blog)

#  [360|iDev 2017: Swifty By Default](/blog/360idev-2017-swifty-by-default)

August 22, 2017 [Ben DiFrancesco](/blog?author=54b81e71e4b06e38ad58f2f2)

Another year, another excellent iteration of [360|iDev](http://360idev.com/)
in the books! Once again, I thoroughly enjoyed the conference, was honored to
speak there, and had a great time visiting Denver. And once again, it provided
a great opportunity to take the pulse of the iOS developer community.

 _(Side note: please consider[supporting John and
Nicole](https://www.patreon.com/360idev) in their mission to provide quality
conferences at an affordable price)._

Two years ago, after attending my first 360|iDev, I [wrote
about](https://www.scopelift.co/blog/360idev-redux) the iOS developer
community wrestling with the adoption of Swift. Last year, I was [struck
by](https://www.scopelift.co/blog/360-idev-2016) the way Swift had opened up
so many new avenues for iOS developers to pursue. This year, what was most
notable was how un-notable Swift has become.

Swift was ubiquitous and uncontroversial. I didn’t see a single line of
Objective-C in the talks I attended. At one point, I began asking other
attendees if they’d see any Objective-C. Most said no. One told me, "Yes-
there was one slide. The speaker _warned_ us ahead of time."

 **For the overwhelming majority of the community, the only reason to write
Objective-C in 2017 is legacy code. The iOS developer community has become
Swifty by default.**

This is an impressive turn of events. A programming language that was released
barely three years ago is now the language of choice on the most valuable
computing platform in existence. There have been some bumps in the road (see
Swift 2 to 3 transition), but for the most part, Apple and the Swift team
deserve a lot of credit for pulling this off.

If you’re one of few holdouts yet to dive into Swift, well, I think it’s time!
While the extent of Swift’s success beyond macOS and iOS is yet to be decided,
this much now seems certain: Swift will be the language of choice on Apple’s
platforms for many years to come.

[<- Phoenix on Heroku: Our Experience Getting CoinRecap.io
Deployed](/blog/2018/3/1/phoenix-on-heroku-our-experience-getting-coinrecapio-
deployed)[The Developer Hiring Process is (Literally) Over Engineered
->](/blog/hiring-is-over-engineered)

[ ](https://twitter.com/BenDiFrancesco) [ ](https://github.com/apbendi) [
](https://www.linkedin.com/pub/ben-difrancesco/9b/426/680)

© ScopeLift 2021

