Last week marked my second time attending [360|iDev](http://360idev.com/) and
my first time speaking. It was an absolute pleasure to do both, and as usual I
feel like my head is still spinning from all the cool stuff I learned and
awesome people I met. As such, it's worth taking a minute to reflect on the
week and what I took from it.

 _Side Note: if you’re interested in my talk, it was about building a_[
_compiler_](https://github.com/apbendi/bitsy-swift) _in Swift for a simple
language called_[ _Bitsy_](https://github.com/apbendi/bitsyspec) _!_

Last year, there was a clear theme that stuck out at the conference: that the
Cocoa community was [wrestling with the introduction of
Swift](http://www.scopelift.co/blog/360idev-redux). While the evolution and
adoption of Swift continues to impact our community, this year it felt less
central. In fact, as many changes as Swift has undergone, it feels like only
one drop in a sea of new, shiny things contending for Cocoa developers’
attention.

Take a second and think about all the changes our community has seen since the
last 360|iDev. From the introduction of a new platform (tvOS), to the
rethinking of an older one...twice (watchOS). From new device capabilities
(force touch) to new devices themselves (the iPad Pro). From big community
milestones (CocoaPods 1.0) to big community shocks (the shuttering of Parse).
It's been a busy year, and that’s before you mention the open sourcing of
Swift, or the myriad of new APIs in iOS 10 or, well….you get the picture.

The sheer volume of **stuff** an “iOS” developer is exposed to today is
staggering. This was reflected in the conference itself. There were talks
about an incredible range of technologies that went well beyond making simple
apps: simulations, compilers, ray tracers, neural nets, drones, and scientific
computing- to name just a handful. There were “soft” talks focused on indies,
sure, but also about development in big teams and for big businesses, and
everything in between.

All of this can seem overwhelming and sometimes leave us nostalgic for
“simpler times,” but at an event like 360|iDev, it becomes clear these are
just the signs of a healthy ecosystem. I met developers working at every size
company, including scrappy startups, tech behemoths, traditional Fortune 500
companies, and huge enterprise consulting firms. Of course, my fellow indies
and small dev shops were also well represented.

For all the [signs](http://daringfireball.net/2016/08/vesper_adieu) it’s
harder than ever to make a living **in**  the App Store, it’s certainly a good
time to be making a living **as** an app developer, and that’s precisely
because our platform has grown far beyond simple, consumer facing phone apps.

This year, my one big takeaway is that there isn’t one big takeaway, and
that’s ok. It means as Cocoa developers we have a myriad of opportunities,
interesting problems, and fascinating technologies to explore. This platform
has opened far more doors than I would have guessed when I started tinkering
with the iPhone SDK a few short years ago.

So, in the coming weeks, as we’re weeping over build errors left by the Swift
3 migrator, or scrambling to get the latest iOS 10 features into our next
release, we should remember to take a breath, put things in perspective, and
be grateful we have such “problems” to deal with at all!

