![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/a-billion-orchids-have-bloomed/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/a-billion-orchids-have-bloomed/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/a-billion-orchids-have-bloomed/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/a-billion-orchids-have-bloomed/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/a-billion-orchids-have-bloomed/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/a-billion-orchids-have-bloomed/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![A billion Orchids have
Bloomed](/static/a5712bd1924601742d27f91d207635cf/a-billion-orchids.jpeg)

# A billion Orchids have Bloomed

Dec 10, 2019  
  

 _Orchid is pleased to share that the Orchid token (OXT) is here! We want to
thank all of our supporters that have been with us since the beginning of our
journey, as well as those who have joined the community since._

## Start using the Orchid app and OXT today

The Orchid app is fully live on both Linux and Android for users to use today.
The app is a VPN client, decentralized VPN service and networking tool that
gives users insight and control of their Internet connection. Orchid harnesses
the power of the Orchid network so that users can receive VPN service by
paying with OXT.

For instructions on how to use Orchid, please [Join the Privacy
Network](https://www.orchid.com/join) today!

If you’re interested in exploring our Open Source code and developing on
Orchid or seeing how it works please visit our
[Github@OrchidTechnologies](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies).

If you are interested in getting in touch with the Orchid team please [contact
us](https://www.orchid.com/contact).

## History of Orchid Labs and OXT

As Orchid launched, a total of one billion tokens were created to power the
Orchid Network. The ERC-20 token, OXT, is used to incentivize a peer-to-peer
network of providers to sell services to the network. Participation in the
Network of distributed nodes is designed to grow over time along with the user
base to support it. We believe that the power of Open Source software and
communities will lead to a more robust Privacy Network. We see developers
using our technologies as the foundation for new innovative ways to build
future applications. Our focus continues to be on the core visions of the
founding team: fostering innovation by building passionate open source
communities with strong developer participation and creating a more
accessible, private Internet.

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

Our first sales of token rights was in conjunction with the formation of
Orchid Labs as a company in 2017 through a Reg D (Rule 506(b)) private
placement. Fortunately, our supporters were enthusiastic about the potential
of a decentralized, consumer-facing VPN network on Ethereum; Threshold
(formerly DFJ), Sequoia Capital, Andreessen Horowitz, and other top tier firms
participated in building the Orchid network. We sold rights to approximately
163 million tokens for [$4.9 million](https://www.coindesk.com/tokenized-tor-
orchid-blockchain-decentralized-internet/).

Our last token rights sale was during Q2 of 2018 after the resources necessary
to successfully execute the project became increasingly clear, in particular,
the need for a top-tier technical and product team, and for best-in-class
marketing. We sold rights to approximately 85 million tokens for [$43
million](https://www.coindesk.com/orchid-tops-43-million-raised-in-token-sale-
for-crypto-tor-alternative).

## Thank You

We are honored to have such an incredible community of supporters along the
way. We are proud to share the Open Source products we’ve built and our
contributions to the larger Web3 ecosystem that are enabling the Internet to
be reclaimed by its users. We view Orchid as a portal for users to Web3 and a
decentralized system designed to empower and benefit users.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [VPN](/tag/vpn/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22A%20billion%20Orchids%20have%20Bloomed%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fa-
billion-orchids-have-bloomed%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fa-
billion-orchids-have-bloomed%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fa-
billion-orchids-have-bloomed%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/starting-today-it-only-costs-1-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

#### Starting today, it only costs $1 to get started with Orchid

](/starting-today-it-only-costs-1-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

Mar 25, 2021

](/get-started-with-orchid-on-android-for-just-1/)

[

#### Get started with Orchid on Android for just $1

](/get-started-with-orchid-on-android-for-just-1/)

May 24, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-kucoin/)

[

#### OXT is listed on KuCoin

](/oxt-is-listed-on-kucoin/)

Sep 13, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

