[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/1f89c073e13f&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Horizon
Games](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*ikCUFjCj4oHVLxbkYNU06g.png)](https://medium.com/horizongames?source=post_page
-----1f89c073e13f--------------------------------)

Published in

[Horizon Games

](https://medium.com/horizongames?source=post_page-----
1f89c073e13f--------------------------------)

[![Marcelo
Suplicy](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/0*j5cRvQNbbijNxhLY)](/@marcelosuplicy?source=post_page
-----1f89c073e13f--------------------------------)

[Marcelo Suplicy](/@marcelosuplicy?source=post_page-----
1f89c073e13f--------------------------------)

Follow

Jun 15, 2020

·

8 min read

# A Brief Primer on Community Management, or How Can a Bard Help Your
Adventure?

Ah, Community Management… Most understand its value, and yet, this is one of
the least formalized positions in the gaming industry (perhaps the least).
There’s not a lot of documentation. CMs themselves tend to be too absorbed
with their own communities to share and cooperate, and when things get rough
in a company, CMing is usually one of the first areas to suffer.

At the same time, along with all the issues and uncertainties above, CMing is
extremely rewarding. CMs get to interact with gamers, media, creative people,
and more. We thrive on those personal or professional relationships, and any
half-decent CM can tell you many tales about how people in their communities
have met, established long-lasting ties (marriages and kids included), and
their personal list of overcome hardships.

If life and work were a big Dungeons & Dragons RPG campaign, who would the CMs
be, then? We are not the makers, the masons, the weavers of images and sounds
(at least, not directly). We aren’t the Fighters, the Wizards, or the Clerics.
Our labor is more subtle, more art than craft (at times!).

We are the **Bards**. Bear with me, put down that pitchfork. Let’s go into a
journey of knowledge and understanding!

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1296/0*Y8mtRgUygWYd6nUa.png)

We are doing it right when we inspire others.

Bards are a much-maligned class in most RPGs. Why? Because they are there to
support. Sure, they can fight, but not as well as a Fighter. They can cast
spells, but not as proficiently as a Mage. They can heal, but a Cleric can do
that much better. On a pinch, they can perform some fine thievery, but not to
the extent a real Rogue would. The common thread here is ‘low impact’.

But, through their presence and the reassurance that they are there to fill
any of the roles above if things go awry, the Bard makes everyone’s lives much
easier. Bards seldom deal the killing blows. Bards don’t shine in the
spotlight. They support, with the understanding that they can make everyone
else’s task easier to carry out, and their days a little less dreary.

There couldn’t be a more apt description for a Community Manager. And, to be
honest, if we are doing our job right, we become mostly invisible, which has
the unfortunate side-effect of making us seem unnecessary or just a weird
extension to Marketing or CS departments.

There are some corollaries of Community Management that I’ll explore in
greater detail in this article, and through it, I hope you’ll learn a bit
about what we do, what we shouldn’t do, and our role in a game’s life cycle.
Ready for some Bardic knowledge?

 **YOU ARE NOT THE STAR**

CMs are frequently exuberant, and there is no problem with that: being social
is at the heart of what we do every single day. However, it’s common to see
CMs getting carried away with their game, community and the power they can
exert over aspects of them, to be then transformed into pseudo-celebrities. In
my opinion and experience, this is a grave mistake, with grave consequences.

Ideally, the CM is a reference. Someone the community knows and trusts, who
shows up when needed, who is always willing to engage, communicate, and
mediate. But, on the daily routine of a gaming community (and, frankly,
communities in general), the CM needs to step back and let the real star
shine: the community itself.

Lyre in hand, fancy troubadour clothing sharply donned, we support, we
educate, we moderate, we communicate. We share the company’s values, and we
set the tone of the conversation. Some communities can be rowdy, spammy and
even NSFW. Others might need a completely different tone and moderation.

There’s no cake recipe here: you need to know your product and your community
members, then adjust as you go, making sure your community members can shine.
They can also help in setting the tone around your product. Then we step back,
and let the community itself blossom and take center stage, as the
protagonists they really are.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*xTkInF9XjqGTafkr8VvqKA.jpeg)

You don’t belong in the center of the stage. Your community does.

 **A JACK OF ALL TRADES**

Our defining trait is being there when we are most needed, and this can happen
in more ways than one. In previous positions, I’ve had to manually set and
restart servers, translate game text and legal contracts, organize and
maintain a team of Game Masters, give interviews on the local news channel,
set up live events, and even rescue a co-worker who was having a seizure. All
that, of course, on top of the regular CM daily fare.

As a CM, at the very least, you must have a profound understanding about your
product, about your team, and about your environments. Along with that, you
need to understand the underlying tech your company is using, its financial
and business strategy, and a number of other relevant general skills: content
production, streaming, common software and hardware knowledge, industry
trends, etc, etc. You can never know enough as a CM, even if you are not
directly responsible for those other areas.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1296/0*iMUf5CoV7heUcUVC.png)

A potion for every ailment, a skill for every challenge.

 **GOTTA HAVE FLAIR**

Might sound a bit conflicting with the first pointer I’ve written above, but
bear with me =) CMs shouldn’t try to be what they aren’t, because they will
inevitably sound phony and awkward. And, we are also individuals, and that
uniqueness should always be brought to the table. Games are international,
multicultural crossroads where you can find all kinds of denizens, so there’s
a place for several kinds of CMs in there too.

Be natural! You can be a calm, collected technical expert, an effervescent and
upbeat host, and everything in between, as long as your flair doesn’t get in
the way of your manners, your professionalism and your communication. In time,
your community will get to know you and appreciate what you can offer them. A
Bard has to find its own voice and rhythm, after all.

However, be very careful of what you say or write at all times, since your
word is seen as official at all times. Don’t promise anything you can’t
provide, never single-out users because they have broken the rules, even if
they give you reason to, and be mindful that people will interpret what you
say in a number of different cultural and language perspectives.

 **YOUR SCHEDULE DOESN’T BELONG TO YOU**

Communities, especially in gaming, are non-stop affairs, and it is very common
for CMs to succumb under the strain of this frenetic pulse. Even experienced
CMs feel the strain of keeping up with thousands of conversations,
developments, plans, strategies and people. Your sleeping time is someone
else’s prime playing time, and they will demand the same level of
communication as the rest of your playerbase.

There are no easy solutions to this one, since not every company can afford a
team of well-trained Bards working around the clock, but that doesn’t mean you
need to kill yourself in your quest. Establish a predictable schedule, and be
very open about your response time. Let people know that you will always get
back to them through a message or e-mail, and that everyone is welcome to post
and interact in the community at any time, keeping those restrictions (your
schedule, response time, personal time) in mind.

If you keep a strong work ethic, your community will know your schedule better
than you, and they will work with you naturally over time. Your moderators and
community pillars will be there to let newcomers know how the community works
when you are not there. Don’t ignore your health, your sleep, and your mental
health, which is a nice segue into our next topic…

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1296/0*xRGTVzUvqTL02lil.png)

The clock can be cruel. You have to be in charge of it, not the other way
around.

 **THICK SKIN AND A HEART OF GOLD**

Schedules can be a demanding aspect of the job, but it is the communities
themselves that have claimed the sanity of many CMs, more than anything else.
We all know the Internet, and how it can bring out the best and the worst in
people. Poorly managed communities tend to slowly but surely slide into toxic
behaviors that can spiral out of control, and once things get bad enough,
reversing them is extremely challenging.

It’s easy to be the bearer of good news when things are all sparkly jolly, but
not everyone is ready to be the herald of hard news, or the one explaining
problems or sorting out a mess. That’s exactly what the good CM has to do,
however. Being honest and upfront in hard times is fundamental to community
trust, and a CM that can’t be trusted is as good as a two-legged chair.

Dealing with trolling and other toxic behaviors is also our bread and butter.
Don’t rejoice or glorify banning bad users, as this will only create negative
feedback that can bring them back (with reinforcements!). Be stern,
professional and fair as you apply the rules, and you shouldn’t have a
problem. Take a deep breath from time to time, and understand that you
shouldn’t take anything personally.

At the same time, be welcoming and positive when good things happen. Show real
appreciation for your community, because they could be spending their time and
energy elsewhere. They remain with you because they choose to do so. Make sure
they understand just how thankful you and your company really are for having
them around.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1296/0*_GRc-NvOG7pAhw9x.png)

Be stern but fair with your evildoers. They can become valuable members too.

 **EVERYONE IS YOUR AUDIENCE**

Many gamers are very gregarious in their digital lives, and it’s a common
pitfall for the inexperienced CM to find a group of users and stick with it.
Let’s be frank here: we all have our preferences. Some people are a better fit
for our demeanor than others, and this is natural.

However, _everyone_ in the community is your job, not just the users you like.
In a sense, you have an even greater responsibility towards the silent
majority or those that actively cause you trouble than those you have already
captivated. If you are not careful, people will see favoritism where it might
not even exist, and this will divide your community and make things more
complicated than they should be.

 _Equal treatment_ is the sharpest sword in your arsenal. If people see you
treating everyone honestly, fairly and professionally, they tend to become
disarmed and pacified. You then allow the community to create its own
interplay, with you as a dependable devil’s advocate. Everyone should be
comfortable (or at the very least, neutral) about your presence.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1296/0*DBQ9P3ndFa0UNaYu.png)

Someone’s prince might be somebody else’s frog…

That’s it! Several members of our [SkyWeaver](https://www.skyweaver.net/)
community have asked me about Community Management, our routines and woes, and
I hope you now understand a bit more how things are seen from our side of the
monitor.

As someone who has been working in the gaming industry for well over a decade,
I am in love with this community, and I am grateful for having the opportunity
to start working with the SkyWeaver community before it even came into being.
I really hope this elation is transparent for each and every one of you.

If you want to chat and/or enjoy the entertainment that our community
provides, [check our Discord](https://skyweaver.chat/). This bard will always
welcome a bigger audience. See you in Sky!

\--

2

\--

\--

2

## [More from Horizon Games](/horizongames?source=post_page-----
1f89c073e13f--------------------------------)

We’re building a New Dimension where Internet economies are fun, accessible,
and for the benefit of all participants. www.horizon.io

[Read more from Horizon Games](/horizongames?source=post_page-----
1f89c073e13f--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Alex
Birch](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*MEY_9iD8nesAj8zBHKT1nw.jpeg)](/@alex_52776?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Alex Birch

](/@alex_52776?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## 3 things to do before you downsize your office

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*ZtbaFGaUkrO05nTuZrw2oQ.png)](/@alex_52776/3-things-
to-do-before-you-downsize-your-office-fae3d4c4cd48?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[[![vlad
ko](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*RvbPLJTW0jX8EVK70KuZdQ.jpeg)](/@vlad_ko?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[vlad ko

](/@vlad_ko?source=post_internal_links---------1----------------------------)

in

[Zen of Coding

](https://medium.com/zen-of-coding?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## I don’t bother with “whiteboard interviews”.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*PUMY2Ru26cVAfrB0.jpg)](/zen-
of-coding/i-dont-bother-with-whiteboard-
interviews-637f8d21289d?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Robert
Glazer](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*GF28N1vQlfZS7bJg_5sZdw.jpeg)](/@robertglazer?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Robert Glazer

](/@robertglazer?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[Mission.org

](https://medium.com/the-mission?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## How Joining A Peer Or Mastermind Group Can Change Your Life

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*WtOxPzvcUvWs1CQ1Fuk29A.jpeg)](/the-
mission/how-joining-a-peer-or-mastermind-group-can-change-your-
life-7e0143238f4f?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![C. A.
Hurst](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*h7HrXIWRX_U0vu2OMZxZuw@2x.jpeg)](/@cahurst52?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[C. A. Hurst

](/@cahurst52?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Back in the ancient days of the 1970’s when I was just starting my adult
career path (which, by the…

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*gDMQBK_m3JDBRBrgpegZgw@2x.jpeg)](/@cahurst52/back-
in-the-ancient-days-of-the-1970s-when-i-was-just-starting-my-adult-career-
path-which-by-the-583655200d7f?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Abersoft](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*u1L52pdQ9wL1GGYzIWk2Rw.jpeg)](/@abersoft?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Abersoft

](/@abersoft?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

## How Technology Can Improve Efficiency in the Workplace

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*0U7tKaR-
ySU20vXfdwTFtg.png)](/@abersoft/how-technology-can-improve-efficiency-in-the-
workplace-102ff41b13e3?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Jacob
Rupp](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*CzIFR_m4C35AXcdYzQ_Rag.jpeg)](/@rabbirupp?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Jacob Rupp

](/@rabbirupp?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[Authority Magazine

](https://medium.com/authority-magazine?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Lift Your Legacy: Leveraging your understanding of people to make the world
a better place with…

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/49/32/1*miNImsnLrjYWepiRFog-
ZQ.jpeg)](/authority-magazine/lift-your-legacy-leveraging-your-understanding-
of-people-to-make-the-world-a-better-place-
with-93003e367e7c?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Owusu
Bernice](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*3cJXVg2O9OF4gYFN)](/@owusubernice-
adjoa?source=post_internal_links---------6----------------------------)

[Owusu Bernice

](/@owusubernice-adjoa?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Can tech be my calling?

](/@owusubernice-adjoa/can-tech-be-my-
calling-3099f8911449?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Lori
Milner](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*r0RM_ICDvkWA01j1zIWrSA.jpeg)](/@lorimilner?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Lori Milner

](/@lorimilner?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Why you shouldn’t obsess about finding your passion.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*sGpC1LPp7jupoTtZLhBDVQ.jpeg)](/@lorimilner/why-
you-shouldnt-obsess-about-finding-your-
passion-93da428741db?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----1f89c073e13f--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
1f89c073e13f--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
1f89c073e13f--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
1f89c073e13f--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
1f89c073e13f--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----1f89c073e13f--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----1f89c073e13f--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fhorizongames%2Fa-
brief-primer-on-community-management-or-how-can-a-bard-help-your-
adventure-1f89c073e13f&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Marcelo
Suplicy](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/0*j5cRvQNbbijNxhLY)](/@marcelosuplicy)

[

## Marcelo Suplicy

](/@marcelosuplicy)

14 Followers

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2Fd8b4db024602&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fhorizongames%2Fa-
brief-primer-on-community-management-or-how-can-a-bard-help-your-
adventure-1f89c073e13f&newsletterV3=95c4a1277020&newsletterV3Id=d8b4db024602&user=Marcelo+Suplicy&userId=95c4a1277020&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![K$D](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*r8AK-7eVJDQNsHi7QMLmMQ.png)](/@kineticspacedao?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------b6be9eb8_675f_4fa6_a09c_a9a077749606-------)

[K$D

](/@kineticspacedao?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
b6be9eb8_675f_4fa6_a09c_a9a077749606-------)

## Web3 Fashion Week Summer 2022 + Cypherpunk CC0 Streetwear Pop Up Series

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*u_3tOBG5BMeAq3WALWLh_A.png)](/@kineticspacedao/web3-fashion-
week-summer-2022-cypherpunk-cc0-streetwear-pop-up-
series-a1e7753f9ab3?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
b6be9eb8_675f_4fa6_a09c_a9a077749606-------)

[[![Lara
Assi](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*U6vfWDSCo37eNAPO)](/@assilara?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------b6be9eb8_675f_4fa6_a09c_a9a077749606-------)

[Lara Assi

](/@assilara?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
b6be9eb8_675f_4fa6_a09c_a9a077749606-------)

## Women in Web3.0 — Have we finally found our space, albeit virtually?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*9i1WYkHLhaw484hC)](/@assilara/women-
in-web3-0-have-we-finally-found-our-space-albeit-
virtually-42f26c8eece8?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
b6be9eb8_675f_4fa6_a09c_a9a077749606-------)

[[![Andrew
Volchek](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*012qfCXgQ8h8K-k5SWJFmg.jpeg)](/@a.volchek?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------b6be9eb8_675f_4fa6_a09c_a9a077749606-------)

[Andrew Volchek

](/@a.volchek?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
b6be9eb8_675f_4fa6_a09c_a9a077749606-------)

in

[Arateg

](https://medium.com/arateg?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------b6be9eb8_675f_4fa6_a09c_a9a077749606-------)

## Top NFT trends that will dominate the market in 2022

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*rzLrILTcPGy-
QpaAxL86Qg.jpeg)](/arateg/top-nft-trends-that-will-dominate-the-market-
in-2022-c5fcb0b41baf?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
b6be9eb8_675f_4fa6_a09c_a9a077749606-------)

[[![Cabala
Labs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*r2UsWb_PxduFw8kclFwJZA.jpeg)](/@CabalaLabs?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------b6be9eb8_675f_4fa6_a09c_a9a077749606-------)

[Cabala Labs

](/@CabalaLabs?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
b6be9eb8_675f_4fa6_a09c_a9a077749606-------)

in

[Cabala Labs

](https://medium.com/cabala-labs?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------b6be9eb8_675f_4fa6_a09c_a9a077749606-------)

## Cabala’s First Project — Creepz Shapeshifters Aggregator

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*-NKyWGAuXDjDVswHqtL5vQ.png)](/cabala-
labs/cabalas-first-project-ss-aggregator-e8bbc0e3ec20?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------b6be9eb8_675f_4fa6_a09c_a9a077749606-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

