[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# A Guide to Surviving Web 3: Crossing the Crypto Chasm

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

A Guide to Surviving Web 3: Crossing the Crypto Chasm

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/ov_ana-150x150.jpg)

May 2019

Posted by

Ana-Maria Yanakieva

Investment Manager

Ana-Maria is also responsible for the identification and implementation of new
Outlier Venture’s Base Camp deals with a specific focus on fundraising, go-to-
market planning, and overseeing the full investor relations process for the
accelerator....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/ana-maria-
yanakieva/)

Web 3 is coming. Slowly but surely. Piece by piece. Protocol by protocol. But
there are some familiar barriers holding back the coming wave. Bitcoin,
blockchains and the broader ‘crypto’ industry is still in the early adoption
phase. Using the diffusion of innovation model and Geoffrey Moore’s Crossing
the Chasm, we need to move from enthusiasts and early adopters to a different
customer group: the ‘early majority’. Technical debates around performance,
standards, and security should continue to be vigorously debated, but other
questions now need to be asked. How will cryptonetworks get Web 2.0 users to
use the products? How will they get users to come back regularly? How will
they build trust in the products?

Knowledge is the first step in adoption. People are exposed to innovation, but
they lack the information to understand it. Once this job is done, people need
to be persuaded to give the product a try. Humans are driven by emotions.
Capturing people’s hearts is just as important as capturing their minds. This
post will look at how to educate, spark interest, drive inclusiveness, and
ultimately reward users.

Posted by Ana-Maria Yanakieva - May 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/ov_ana-150x150.jpg)

May 2019

Posted by

Ana-Maria Yanakieva

Investment Manager

Ana-Maria is also responsible for the identification and implementation of new
Outlier Venture’s Base Camp deals with a specific focus on fundraising, go-to-
market planning, and overseeing the full investor relations process for the
accelerator....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/ana-maria-
yanakieva/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

![A Guide to Surviving Web 3: Crossing the Crypto Chasm Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/08/leap-456100_640.jpg)

#### Crossing the Crypto Chasm

_By Ana-Maria Yanakieva & Lawrence Lundy-Bryan, April 2019_



## Spread The Word

Knowledge is the foundation of all invention and with the Internet, knowledge
exchange is easier than ever. The Internet, smartphones and social media make
it seamless to share information in seconds with anyone around the world. Use
it to your advantage. The modern decision-making process needs to be more and
more informed every day as we are presented with plenty of commodities and the
freedom of choice. The established marketing channels like social media and
email can be used effectively to attract potential users and to educate them
through interactive content. Nano influencers can be used strategically to
extend reach. Their audiences are emotionally attached as they can relate to
these real life people and usually trust their judgement. For better of worse.
Let’s make it clear, you don’t have to buy influencers’ opinion. Just show
them your product and get honest feedback then iterate until the group is
happy with the result that then they can genuinely promote. A success-based
model remuneration can be established once you see some traction.

**_“The established marketing channels like social media and email can be used
effectively to attract potential users and to educate them through interactive
content.”_**





## Spark Interest

Spreading the word and getting people to know what you do is only the first
step. Using legacy platforms to reach out to users can be done strategically
and not break the bank. People need content to be pushed to them and not to
proactively seek it. Once they’re introduced to your offering, spark interest
by making your onboarding process as easy and as fluid as possible. If your
cold leads have to dig deep to find you and then stumble upon difficulties in
the very first steps, the chances are that you’ve lost them. People have three
simple requirements for most services:

  1. To be addressing a real problem
  2. To be easy to use
  3. To be convenient

Nobody apart from the very early adopters will bother with a steep learning
curve. The notion of decentralising business and using tokens is already
complicated enough for most people. Make it as intuitive and as easy as
possible to get them interested. Brave is an example of a crypto project doing
this well. To the regular non-tech-savvy user they’re just a browser with ad-
blocking features. Then after some time passes by, these new users get a pop-
up for using the ad network and BAT. Some of my friends got interested in the
market through Brave.

**_“People have three simple requirements for most services: to be addressing
a real problem, to be easy to use and convenient.”_**





## Keeping Up With The Users

Now that you’ve acquired your first users through knowledge sharing and an
easy onboarding process, you need to make sure they will stay with you. Let’s
borrow another useful concept from Web 2.0. Customisation has been exploding
in the past couple of years, Adidas and Lego even created challenges for the
coolest designs. Direct-to-consumer businesses are being funded and acquired
at record rates. If we can involve the users (consumers) as deep as the design
phase of the product, why can’t we involve them in the upside of the value
created or even in governance? We are already crowdsourcing intelligence, but
as consumers we do not have a say in how the aggregators are being led. It is
important that we own our data. But this should not stop us aggregating and
analysing it in anonymised and private ways. Without being able to draw
conclusions, insights and predictions from data, it is almost worthless. Let
your project be the data aggregator, let your users contribute and split the
upside based on merit. Numerai (Erasure), Fetch.AI, and Augur are all actively
engaging their respective communities. An emotional bond always leads to loyal
users.

**_“If we can involve the users (consumers) as deep as the design phase of the
product, why can’t we involve them in the upside of the value created or even
in governance?”_**





## Reward The Network

Bonding with your users is awesome and pretty much the only way to get the Gen
Z-ers. There is a difference between incentives and motivation. Motivation is
the bonding process we’ve already described. For the ultimate success it
should be paired with incentives. The incentives are the sugar for every
network - everybody pretends to hate it but ultimately we all know that’s not
true. Distributing part of the upside to our users is a great way to keep them
satisfied and intrigued. Depending on what your token’s purpose is, the
distribution can happen through revenue share in real time (e.g. fee-sharing),
profit sharing, direct payments between users (e.g. data markets), etcetera.
There is plenty of room for creativity. Incentives like revenue share and
motivation at emotional level together turn your code in a fully functioning
network. Steemit has experimented with paying contributors to submit higher
quality content and Brave are also hoping to use this strategy to pay users
for their attention. Patreon is another example from the ‘old world’ where
people can pay their favourite content creators and then interact and take
part of the creative process.

**_“Incentives and motivation together turn your code in a fully functioning
network. Financial upside keeps the basic needs satisfied whereas the
emotional bond gives your users the sense of belonging.”_**





## Encourage Diversity

Incentives can give a really nice shape to a couple of thousand lines of code.
But what is it good for if it is always the same people participating? It can
get really boring if your network gets too specialised. Thus, we would
encourage the promotion of diversity. Diversity of background, experiences and
opinions can turn a network from a good data aggregator to an awesome data
aggregator. The more diverse the network is, the less prone to bias the output
will be. Unconstrained growth can be both good and bad for the sustainability
of the network. Monitor the demographics and make sure no group is
outnumbering the rest to ensure valid results. It can also give a sense of
exclusivity which by itself will drive even more interest.

**_“A diverse network reduces the risk of output bias”_**





## We create more content than ever, yet, no platform can summarise it
accurately

Nowadays we live in constant information dumping. People can easily get
overwhelmed while sifting through to find the quality. To drive user adoption,
first start with carefully establishing a profile of your users. Then get in
front of them and educate them on your solution to their immediate problem.
Spark the interest and onboard them. To differentiate from your web 2.0 peers,
include them in the upside of the business and make them feel like they
belong. At this point, we are building networks, not single products.
Acquiring and retaining users doesn’t have to be a difficult exercise. In
fact, it should be easier than ever. Users benefit from the success of the
product. Not only is that fairer but it can also mean money back in the pocket
of the user. If done well, we expect to see blockbuster virality from Web 3
businesses. In the end, it might not be a chasm at all. It will be more of a
hop.

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

