![serveimage.jpg](https://images.squarespace-
cdn.com/content/v1/5720adbdc6fc0891cbcce17c/1500767083229-YD2Y8P2KDCFIUXL362LK/serveimage.jpg?format=1000w)

Many libertarians seem to love to hate Elon Musk these days. His crime is to
live at the public purse. His companies would be bankrupt without green
subsidies and cheap government loans and contracts. He seeks out favorable
terms from governments and angles to capture subsidies and cheap loans with no
reservation and with vast success at doing so. This situation, along with
certain financing practices and relationships among his companies, has led to
it becoming fashionable to disdain Musk as a public figure and to characterize
him with sweeping put-downs.

I have a more complex assessment of Musk as a figure. I enjoyed listening to
his 2015 [biography](https://www.amazon.com/Elon-Musk-SpaceX-Fantastic-
Future/dp/0062301233) by Ashlee Vance. I tend to look for the positive things
in people. One positive quality here is the ability to re-envision products
from the ground up in a completely different way. The Tesla is not just the
evolution of the car, but a completely new way to think about what a car is. A
car is a thing with an engine and a drive train, right? True for a century,
but not any more. Musk has done in the fields of cars and rockets, what Steve
Jobs did for computers and phones, completely re-envisioned what they could
be, how they could be built, and how they could be used.

A second quality is execution under very challenging circumstances. Anyone can
have big ideas, but only the few are able to successfully execute on them in
the "really existing" world. SpaceX's rocket designs and rocket reuse and the
Tesla Model S were almost universally deemed impossible—until the job was
actually done. Rocket reuse was just a science-fiction fantasy. SpaceX did it.
An electric car "that didn't suck" was also an impossibility—until Tesla built
the Model S, which has been assessed by multiple car review magazines as
basically the best car in the world, bar none, on both safety and performance.
It is not only _as good as_ conventional vehicles, it leaves them all behind,
not just on green measures, but on _car_ measures as such.

So from a simple first look, at this level, one could argue that however these
things were achieved, **they were at least potentially positive achievements**
(though this assessment will be qualified further below). In addition, Musk
cannot be accused of relying on subsidies _to the exclusion of_ also having
skin in the game. He has repeatedly staked recklessly large portions of his
personal fortune on bridging impossible-looking financial stretches for his
enterprises.

I fully support the view that actively advocating for the expenditure of
public funds is immoral. The only moral way to advocate for the use of public
funds is to argue in favor of their return to the people to whom they
rightfully belong, namely those whose wealth was forcibly extracted, mainly
the original taxpayers.

On the other hand, if taxpayers in their role as victims of the state accept
state handouts that are already flowing—provided they do not actively advocate
for the continuation of such handouts—it is perfectly moral for them to take
receipt of such funds as a form of limited restitution for other damages they
suffer at the state's hands on a constant basis. This includes not only direct
taxation but all the myriad seen and unseen harms from the arbitrary
"regulation" of many aspects of life and work, all unjust restrictions on the
liberties of mutually consensual production, trade, and association.

In this context, Musk's actions in relation to subsidies and government
contracts must be viewed as mixed. Green vehicle subsidies, for example,
already existed before Tesla. Building a car that would qualify for them does
not—in itself—constitute advocating for the subsidy program. Seeing only
crappy electric cars receiving subsidies, an entrepreneur could quite
reasonably set out to build a better competing car that would also receive
these same pre-existing subsidies instead of the crappy golf-cart cars.

Of course, Musk certainly does promote such programs. However, only at the
point where he benefits from programs the adoption or maintenance of which was
actually influenced by his advocacy—does a moral case against his benefiting
from them become unmistakable. The minimal conceptual dividing line is that
simply benefiting from subsidies is not objectionable per se, advocating for
them _is_ objectionable, and advocating for them and then also receiving
benefits _as a result of_ such advocacy is the worst case.

In this view, I suspect that his guilt is far more mixed than a simplistic
portrayal of "his company benefits from subsidies, and could not exist without
them." His enterprises have surely benefited in all three types of ways,
ranging from acceptable to less acceptable to not acceptable.

Context is also important. No car company would exist in its current form and
at its current scale without unimaginably massive subsidies continuously
provided to all automobiles over many decades, distorting not only the entire
structure of transportation, but also the very formation and shapes of cities
and communities. This vast structural distortion of the entire transportation
industry, which systematically twists spatial relationships between residences
and businesses, takes a simple form: the production and maintenance of roads
provided free of charge to drivers, financed by taxation. A simple heuristic
to consider while commuting is that every time one has to pay by waiting, such
as in a long line or in thick traffic, the state is squarely to blame.

In prosecuting Musk for his moral position in relation to the receipt of
government support, another "extenuating circumstance" of wider context must
be considered. What his companies have done with the money and other
advantages he receives from state entities is far more valuable a contribution
than almost anything else that follows from other uses of such money and
advantages.

Most of the state's money goes to "the production of _bads_ ," to use Hoppe's
terminology, as opposed to the free market's production of _goods_. We do not
want the production of bads to be carried out more efficiently. Indeed, we do
not want bads to be produced at all—less of them is better.

Not only is the money the state extracts from the productive population wasted
once when initially extracted, the ways that this money is subsequently used
are generally quite wasteful _a second time_ , compounding the damage to
society. In the US case, most government money goes to the following types of
uses: financing global military interventionism and promoting armed conflict
and death all around the world, financing vast bureaucracies that meddle in
all aspects of society, undermining healthy natural incentives, promoting
fragility, harming employment, limiting innovation, and spreading social and
cultural degeneration, high time preference, frailty, and dependency across
the population.

Against this backdrop, Tesla has extracted something from the stream of public
money and used it as part of a project which has produced arguably the best
car the world has ever seen.

Why libertarians should want to focus vitriol on _this, one of the best_ __
existing uses of the state's handouts is somewhat mysterious. Why not spend
the same time complaining about the 99+% of uses of state subsidies and
privileges that lead to worse outcomes than this?

It is far easier to criticize than to achieve. A sad and strong cultural
tendency is to find flaws in hero figures and emphasize those flaws _over_
their positive characteristics. But what does such cultural cynicism bring?

My approach is the opposite in two ways: focusing on the positive and focusing
on qualities. I look for admirable _aspects_ of a person. I look for actions
and qualities to which positive adjectives such as _heroic_ can be applied,
rather than attempting to apply a blanket noun such as _hero_ (or _not_ a
hero) to necessarily multifaceted persons. I always look for what I can admire
and/or borrow, in both people and thought systems. If I were to look for the
worst in others and focus on that, it would be simple, but would accomplish
nothing, since I would always find and focus on negative aspects of persons,
aspects which I did _not_ want to emulate. If instead I look for the best in
each person, I always have _something_ available to learn from and emulate.
Likewise, if I look for the best in each thought system, and dismiss the rest,
I always have one new puzzle piece to add to my own global knowledge
synthesis.

I agree that Musk is guilty of actively seeking to gain from state handouts.
However, this is partly mitigated in that at least some of these handouts were
already being handed out, and could therefore be legitimately captured as
partial restitution for other damages that the state continuously inflicts. It
is also partly mitigated in that the uses to which these funds are being put
are arguably positive developments _relative to_ the worse outcomes that
result from almost all other uses of money derived from state coffers.

It should be made clear that extenuating circumstances do not make it morally
acceptable to advocate for the receipt of subsidies from the state.
Nevertheless, guilt on this count (albeit probably somewhat more mitigated
guilt than some critics have implied) should not be interpreted such as to
invalidate the man's positive attributes and accomplishments.

As I read Musk's biography a couple years back, I came to view him more as the
type of mixed Randian semi-hero who blends a certain heroic genius in some
areas with serious flaws elsewhere. His genius is a vision- and engineering-
driven entrepreneurship that has proven able to repeatedly achieve "the
impossible" in practice in productive sectors of technological achievement
(mainly transportation). One of his flaws is being all too gleeful in his
pursuit of capturing ill-gotten gains from the state as one of the means he
uses in this process.

The purest of the Randian superheroes all went on vacation from their
professions in an exclusive mountain resort. Engaging with the real world to
achieve great things _today_ is often messy and complex. This is _not_ an
excuse to soften one's moral principles in action. However, Musk's own moral
worldview contains no compunctions about attempting to influence state and
regulatory actions, including in favor of his own enterprises. He can
therefore be accused of being morally mistaken on this topic. Yet this amounts
to the relatively simple claim that he is not a libertarian, which I do not
think is in dispute.

I do not buy into the bases of some of Musk's bigger-picture motivations,
above all global warming death hype. In addition, I argue in "[The Unbearable
Lightness of Martian Gravity](https://medium.com/@konradsgraf/the-unbearable-
lightness-of-martian-gravity-health-evolution-and-colonization-1884912efcf5)"
that his Mars _colonization_ vision could very well turn out to be a dead-end,
not on technical grounds, but on biological ones. That said, I do not
criticize in order to take down a hero figure. I acknowledge and appreciate
the heroic _aspects_ of the figure, while also acknowledging the flaws and
pointing out what I believe to be the errors.

Ron Paul said that if we are reducing the size of the state, the place to
_start_ is not with old ladies' state pension checks, but with outlandish
militarism and a state-orchestrated monetary system that enables virtually
unlimited debt financing for the state and its cronies. Probably one of _the_
_last things_ to cut out in dismantling the interventionist state is old
ladies' pension checks, and this _after_ other policies that have undermined
responsible private retirement saving, real insurance, and natural multi-
generational care practices have been long since eliminated.

Likewise, libertarians complaining about uses to which government money is
being put might consider that Tesla subsidies could well be among _the best
uses_ to which such money is currently being put. They might therefore
redirect their attention and vitriol to the widespread mass production of
unmistakable "bads" financed by the state, those that are far worse than some
of the more impressive American engineering innovations in recent memory.

