[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/728d7ae301c5&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Horizon
Games](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*ikCUFjCj4oHVLxbkYNU06g.png)](https://medium.com/horizongames?source=post_page
-----728d7ae301c5--------------------------------)

Published in

[Horizon Games

](https://medium.com/horizongames?source=post_page-----
728d7ae301c5--------------------------------)

[![Peter
Kieltyka](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/0*r-NcF572knjzC1Bq.jpeg)](/@peterk?source=post_page
-----728d7ae301c5--------------------------------)

[Peter Kieltyka](/@peterk?source=post_page-----
728d7ae301c5--------------------------------)

Follow

Sep 13, 2018

·

7 min read

# A New Dimension of Gaming

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*hFqP7SjViF8_P_DXB_qe9A.jpeg)

Horizon Blockchain Games — A New Dimension of Gaming — artwork by [Scott
Uminga](http://www.scottuminga.com)

Blockchain technology has given rise to a new dimension that will change video
games forever. Born from digital origins and still in its infancy, this
dimension embodies qualities of both our digital and physical worlds.

Just as the physical world is governed by the laws of physics, this new
digitally-derived dimension is governed by the laws of distributed computing
and cryptography. It contains intrinsic economics that are governed by
blockchain ledgers. Like the digital world, it is made up entirely of
information, which can be freely and instantly constructed, modified,
transported and repurposed at a granular level.

The unique combination of physical and digital properties form the essence of
this new dimension, and it is what we believe will manifest the future of
video games.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*3ZCrb9vAHRxyDzoWPeZr1g.png)

“ethEra” by [Nelly Baksht](https://artbynelly.com/cryptoart/) has been a great
source of inspiration for us. We think of ethEra as a _digital mother nature,_
bringing life to a new kind of digital nature — a new digital dimension — with
physical qualities.

We formed [Horizon Blockchain Games](https://horizongames.net/) to explore
this new dimension, and harness its potential in our new gaming experiences.
But to fully understand its significance, we must first examine the history of
our relationships with digital worlds and the assets found therein.

 **A Brief History of Digital Ownership**

Since the earliest days of computing, digital ownership has played a
purposeful role in the creation of compelling interactive experiences. Mario
collected coins to gain extra lives. Link carried a sword to defeat his
enemies. Years later, the advent of online gaming and shared virtual worlds
added new levels of authenticity and emotional investment to digital
ownership. Early MMOs like _Meridian 59_ , _Ultima Online_ , and _Everquest_
pioneered peer-to-peer virtual economies in which players could buy, sell,
trade and modify their assets. This new layer of computer-mediated interaction
added a powerful new facet to online gaming. It tapped into our social
compulsions to organize, compare, and understand ourselves through material
ownership. As a result, rewards became even more thrilling. Losses, all the
more devastating.

Almost simultaneously, digital assets were assigned real-world world value. In
2012, a [virtual axe in Blizzard’s _Diablo III_ sold for $16,000
USD](http://www.ign.com/boards/threads/most-expensive-item-in-diablo-3-sold-
for-16k.452776697/). Chinese gold farmers began [working 12 hours a
day](https://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/17/magazine/17lootfarmers-t.html),
harvesting virtual currency in _World of Warcraft_ to be sold at online
auction. In 2014, a battle between warring space armadas saw _EVE Online_
players destroy a combined total of [$330,000
worth](https://www.polygon.com/2014/1/30/5360208/Eve-Onlines-Bloodbath) of
virtual starships.

We place irrefutable value on the digital assets we find emotionally and
intellectually meaningful to our virtual lives. Lives that are, themselves,
vehicles for exploring our most fundamental nature as a species. We invest
time, money, and energy into amassing vast virtual estates, the gravity of
which have attracted entire online communities, spawning digital playgrounds
that command more of our time and attention than those in the physical world.
Thanks to blockchain, however, our understanding of digital assets is poised
to change.

 **The Treasured Illusion**

Digital ownership, as we have come to know it, is largely illusory. The
centralized computing environments that govern the value, ownership, and
makeup of traditional digital assets contain proprietary biases that prevent
players from ever enjoying the same full freedom of ownership that they would
with a physical asset. Until now, digital assets like in-game currencies,
equipment, vehicles, and land were merely licensed from their true owners: the
game’s publishers. These borrowed goods could not be transported or utilized
outside of their game of origin. They could not be modified beyond what the
game’s designers allowed. Trading them on an external market was considered a
violation of the publisher’s terms of service, and was punishable by bans and
fines. Players were free to lead rich online lives and amass digital wealth,
so long as it was never made relevant to the outside world.

At Horizon, we see a better way.

 **The New Blockchain Paradigm**

Blockchain applications, or decentralized applications (DApps), are digital
economies owned and operated by their participants. The open nature of DApps
permits anyone in the world to modify, evolve or build with them. Viewed
through a different lens, DApps can be seen as digital organisms with
cryptography and economics woven into their DNA. It is through these
decentralized systems that we can now have digital assets akin to those found
in the physical world. A digital collectible card is now analogous to a
physical one, in that it belongs to you and you alone. Its sale or
modification is as real on the blockchain as it is in the physical world.

Blockchain video games are DApps that **lead** with the fundamentals that
tokenized virtual items are owned by players and are treasured goods of value.

Tokenized items are not borrowed from a game publisher, nor are they
ephemeral, nor do they exist in the silo of only one brand, game or account
that players can’t even trade with friends. With DApps, it’s the opposite:
blockchain games open up the ecosystem of a game’s virtual world and embrace
asset ownership for players, trading items between players in secondary
marketplaces, interoperability of those items between games, and a community’s
ability to mod a game if it chooses. We’re talking about decentralizing video
games down to their core — everything from their items, rewards and economy
all the way to their source codes.

In decentralized video games, items are for play and reward.

When playing traditional video games, players collect items, purchase mods and
coins, or participate in a game’s virtual world in some way. But, because
traditional games are isolated and independent from one another, players’
items and achievements are left behind whenever they leave one world for
another. Certainly, we wouldn’t expect to see Mario, or his raccoon form,
appear in _Fortnite_. With Ethereum’s blockchain design, its massive grid
network and deterministic virtual machine, however, all games can exist in the
same world. This interconnected world opens up many new possibilities, such as
collecting, purchasing and earning items from one game and then transferring
them into another game. Blockchain enables one gaming network — or “dimension”
as we like to say — that’s operated and shared by the community of players,
where every game is born from the same origin, and all games live connected
and federated together.

In the summer of 2017, we began our journey with one founding question: how
will the advent of blockchain change the future of gaming?

These were our answers, which have since become our pillars for blockchain
game design:

 **True Digital Ownership  
** Through the power of blockchain, we can now build a world where players
retain every coin, card, and collectable beyond their games of origin. These
digital assets can be held in crypto wallets, affording players permanent and
absolute dominion over their digital estates, unlocking a universe of
interoperable gaming and economic potential. As true owners, players are free
to sell, trade, or augment their digital assets however they want.

 **Provable Fairness  
** By its very nature, decentralized infrastructure is protected from
malicious actors and external influence. Many describe DApps as being
“trustless”, in that users don’t need to exhibit trust in each other since the
laws of the DApp itself govern every interaction. Players can maintain full
privacy of their identity, and only identify through a pseudonym tied to their
crypto wallet address where their game items reside. They engage with each
other in competitive play where the rules are open to all, match history is
deterministic, and every player move is cryptographically signed for
authenticity. Moves are impossible to forge and breaking the rules is easily
detectable. The provable fairness of the network supports the robustness and
health of the DApp’s ecosystem and the value within.

 **Play To Earn  
** Through the power of smart contracts together with cryptoeconomic design,
we can now give players the opportunity to participate in gaming experiences
that generate and distribute digital assets based on their outcome. We can
create worlds in which winning battles, completing quests, and defeating
opponents award digital assets securely. Whether players keep the rewards,
trade them, or sell them for cryptocurrency is entirely their choice.

 **Interoperable Economies  
** Blockchain technology provides a standardized economic infrastructure for
applications to build a network of players, goods and rewards. The
interoperable nature of these systems affords players the ability to move
between game economies with ease. In-game items, themselves a form of
tokenized asset, can be traded and/or converted for other cryptocurrencies
like ETH. Suddenly, all game economies can be connected, producing one
massive, navigable ecosystem, offering greater network effects and value
transfer between players and games. Gamers can play to earn currency in one
economy and spend it in another.

 **Mass Collaboration  
** The economic value and business model of a blockchain game reside at the
protocol level. The game items are what have value, not the software licenses
or subscriptions. This means that blockchain video games can be open source
and that players can modify and extend the games they’re playing. Communities
will evolve video games in ways never before seen, which means that the games’
original creators and the players will contribute to the ecosystem,
participate in and benefit from the economies. It’s a mass collaboration in
which everyone wins.

At [Horizon](https://horizongames.net), we make blockchain-powered gaming
experiences for dreamers, futurists, and digital citizens. We’re on a mission
to pioneer a new dimension of gaming that belongs to its players. We’re
building a new platform for decentralized video games where players enjoy the
freedom of privacy, true digital ownership, open economies, provable fairness,
and the ability to earn through play.

We believe that blockchain technology has brought us to the start of a
disruptive shift in modern gaming, and we’re only just beginning to understand
its implications. Every facet of our understanding will need to be
reevaluated, including user experiences, revenue models, cooperation,
economics, social relations, standardization, content creation, ruleset
management, and more. We couldn’t be more excited.

There’s a new dimension of gaming beyond the horizon. One where physical and
digital playgrounds collide — a new gaming world that belongs to its players.
We hope you’ll join us there.

 _Want to join us on our journey? Visit_[
_SkyWeaver.net_](https://skyweaver.net/) _and join our mailing list for
updates and the chance to join future playtesting sessions or come chat with
us on our_[ _Discord_](https://discord.gg/PGjN9Av) _._

glhf,

\- the Horizon team

\--

1

\--

\--

1

## [More from Horizon Games](/horizongames?source=post_page-----
728d7ae301c5--------------------------------)

We’re building a New Dimension where Internet economies are fun, accessible,
and for the benefit of all participants. www.horizon.io

[Read more from Horizon Games](/horizongames?source=post_page-----
728d7ae301c5--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![VeryFile](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*MkwYAs0rEaRG7I-V)](/@veryfile?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[VeryFile

](/@veryfile?source=post_internal_links---------0----------------------------)

## The Veryfile Solution in the Legal Field

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*KTGsSN2tbDg7G442wP7y0g.jpeg)](/@veryfile/the-
veryfile-solution-in-the-legal-field-ac3f7cc73ca0?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[[![Coin
Lancer](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*UNs04iYh4oWponlH)](/@seocoinlancer?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Coin Lancer

](/@seocoinlancer?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## How Blockchain Technology Could Affect Freelance Jobs?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*FK6uvI09djU8QlWeGJ1Lxw.jpeg)](/@seocoinlancer/how-
blockchain-technology-could-affect-freelance-jobs-
dc1f15f45b0a?source=post_internal_links---------1----------------------------)

[[![Nikhil
Sethi](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*7mu7Qj6mAn11iNjtJ9l2GQ.jpeg)](/@team-72743?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Nikhil Sethi

](/@team-72743?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[Morpheus.Network

](https://medium.com/morpheus-network?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Morpheus.Network Participates In EU Workshop On Blockchain And Its Uses In
The Agri-Food Sector

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*HHfZWpJeuHyp_0CtSFkyEg.jpeg)](/morpheus-
network/morpheus-network-participates-in-eu-workshop-on-blockchain-and-its-
uses-in-the-agri-food-sector-83fba47012d8?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Nathan
Glover](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*EoZvzYqRipPMSbc_.)](/@t04glovern?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Nathan Glover

](/@t04glovern?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## KittyCoin Club — Introduction

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*aHWeltXLkbJddMaMp2lTIw.png)](/@t04glovern/kittycoin-
club-introduction-73ba33c6aaf0?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Blockchain
Companion](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*iktiq7j55CtfCOzoAPnhUQ.png)](/@blockchain-
companion?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

[Blockchain Companion

](/@blockchain-companion?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

in

[BLOCK6

](https://medium.com/block6?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## What really is Blockchain?

![Image giving an impression of the decentralized nature of the blockchain
network.](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*NFekuhvKujRpkQNUz-i7Pw.jpeg)](/block6/what-
really-is-blockchain-af04b6ea0f23?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![DIANA, the world's First Blockchain Moon
Registry](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*gkjtabQIgFRi5j1zdKO7Ng.jpeg)](/@dianaio?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[DIANA, the world's First Blockchain Moon Registry

](/@dianaio?source=post_internal_links---------5----------------------------)

in

[DIANA.io

](https://medium.com/dianaios?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Project DIANA.io — A Blockchain to “BUY” the Moon

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*RWiEmu4dtCaFL8emJ7mEiw.png)](/dianaios/project-
diana-io-a-blockchain-to-buy-the-moon-c8876085600?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[[![Paul Scott - Degen.VC](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*tis-
qBzCvGqhEK0NToqebA.png)](/@paul_degen.vc?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[Paul Scott - Degen.VC

](/@paul_degen.vc?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[Behodler Liquidity Engine

](https://medium.com/behodler?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Behodler Telegram AMA: March 1st, 2021

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*b7K1d0Noeu3McCUfWoOwZg.jpeg)](/behodler/behodler-
telegram-ama-march-1st-2021-16ee094079dd?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Dominik Martin
Świerkot](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*6znL7iluLcL6FpTiIQ4m_A.jpeg)](/@dominikmartinwierkot?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Dominik Martin Świerkot

](/@dominikmartinwierkot?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

in

[FerrumNetwork

](https://medium.com/ferrumnetwork?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Announcing the Next Staking Project: Multi Channel Network

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*E2HQW7QAzt6Ws0lXU1LSIw.jpeg)](/ferrumnetwork/announcing-
the-next-staking-project-multi-channel-
network-722dd1880186?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----728d7ae301c5--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
728d7ae301c5--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
728d7ae301c5--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
728d7ae301c5--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
728d7ae301c5--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----728d7ae301c5--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----728d7ae301c5--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fhorizongames%2Fa-
new-dimension-of-gaming-728d7ae301c5&source=post_page
--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Peter
Kieltyka](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/0*r-NcF572knjzC1Bq.jpeg)](/@peterk)

[

## Peter Kieltyka

](/@peterk)

373 Followers

Co-founder of Horizon Blockchain Games -
[github.com/pkieltyka](http://github.com/pkieltyka)

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2Fe9843db75028&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fhorizongames%2Fa-
new-dimension-of-
gaming-728d7ae301c5&newsletterV3=1e4a94b1ba96&newsletterV3Id=e9843db75028&user=Peter+Kieltyka&userId=1e4a94b1ba96&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![BAXE](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*9GkYb_dSPnhxC4l-gLuKMA.png)](/@baxe_app?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------05ab88e1_a4de_4ac4_b42c_d47073be98f3-------)

[BAXE

](/@baxe_app?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
05ab88e1_a4de_4ac4_b42c_d47073be98f3-------)

## Could Your CEO be an AI? The Rise of Decentralised Autonomous Organisations
(DAOs)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*RNidh-
cZ8cWBbLclNjP9HQ.jpeg)](/@baxe_app/could-your-ceo-be-an-ai-the-rise-of-
decentralised-autonomous-organisations-
daos-967c88191878?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
05ab88e1_a4de_4ac4_b42c_d47073be98f3-------)

[[![Bryan
T.](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*KloKBJpNHGPZ7tdewBjZAA.png)](/@hatruongv?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------05ab88e1_a4de_4ac4_b42c_d47073be98f3-------)

[Bryan T.

](/@hatruongv?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
05ab88e1_a4de_4ac4_b42c_d47073be98f3-------)

in

[Digital Unicorn Insights

](https://medium.com/digital-unicorn?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------05ab88e1_a4de_4ac4_b42c_d47073be98f3-------)

## What Is GameFi and How Does It Work?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Tx-
EEbC8hndStl2AT58ZRw.png)](/digital-unicorn/what-is-gamefi-and-how-does-it-
work-56fb4502b014?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
05ab88e1_a4de_4ac4_b42c_d47073be98f3-------)

[[![tripti
vishwakarma](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*VGA4LqbI14bFgkNwwe8zTQ.png)](/@byteblock-
nft?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
05ab88e1_a4de_4ac4_b42c_d47073be98f3-------)

[tripti vishwakarma

](/@byteblock-nft?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
05ab88e1_a4de_4ac4_b42c_d47073be98f3-------)

## ByteBlock launching NFT platform on CSC network

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*XRZC5c6a9xaTsiCJTwHaHQ.png)](/@byteblock-
nft/byteblock-launching-nft-platform-on-csc-
network-f75fecb852a?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
05ab88e1_a4de_4ac4_b42c_d47073be98f3-------)

[[![QPassport](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*sYD2hE30DpDdPNcGlQEvGw.png)](/@QPassport?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------05ab88e1_a4de_4ac4_b42c_d47073be98f3-------)

[QPassport

](/@QPassport?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
05ab88e1_a4de_4ac4_b42c_d47073be98f3-------)

## QPassport Roadmap and DAO Plan

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*xbel0jRk0B0rKWsyjFDc1w.png)](/@QPassport/qpassport-
roadmap-and-dao-plan-f8913036a1c0?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------05ab88e1_a4de_4ac4_b42c_d47073be98f3-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

