[Go Back](../../)[Fleek.co](https://Fleek.co)

# A People’s Guide to IPFS

![](https://fleek-team-bucket.storage.fleek.co/thumbnails-blog/IPFS.png)

“You never change things by fighting the existing reality. To change
something, build a new model that makes the existing model obsolete.” ―
Buckminster Fuller

IPFS presents itself as a radical innovation whose aim is to reshape the
entire web as we know it into a system that is more secure, efficient, and
reliable. This is not science fiction. IPFS is in active development and
companies are already using it to solve real-world problems, including
[Netflix](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wNfk05D887M). It is only a matter of
time before IPFS gains wide adoption.

But what is IPFS exactly and why should we care? In this article, we’ll
straightforwardly answer this question. We will see the problems inherent with
the web’s current architecture and discuss how IPFS addresses those issues.

## The Internet Trilogy: Return of the Web

You might have heard the term Web3 thrown around in association with IPFS. It
means web3 as in the third version of the web. But this begs the question:
What are Web1 and Web2 and what does IPFS bring to the table?

Web1 corresponds to a simple static web page. Think of a simple company page
with a description of the products and services and some contact information
whose functionality is limited to fetching a web page and displaying
information. Web2, on the other hand, describes a more sophisticated client-
server architecture powering many of our modern web applications, in which
content constantly updates and changes dynamically. Think twitter, Facebook,
and other apps in which users can create accounts and post content.

Both Web1 and Web2 both work on HTTP. HTTP is the method of communication of
the current internet. Most web browsers communicate through HTTP and it is the
reason why web addresses are often prefixed with HTTP://. This method of
communication (also called a protocol) requires a client to request data to a
server. For instance, let’s say you wish to connect to Facebook. The client,
your web browser, will ask the server, facebook’s servers, for a copy of the
Facebook web application. The server will then respond with the data.
Similarly, fetching posts and images is done through a series of requests and
responses.

[ ![intro1](../../static/c980c0d4a04a6eb769667e353804c69f/72b22/intro1.jpg)
](../../static/c980c0d4a04a6eb769667e353804c69f/72b22/intro1.jpg)

However, this method comes with its own set of problems. First of all, it is
**inefficient**. Requests have to be made to servers in remote locations which
adds latency to requests. If we decide to exit the application and log in
again, we will have to refetch the same files again even though we might still
have them. The infrastructure to operate servers for millions of users is
expensive and the costs keep increasing as the internet becomes data-hungrier
through high-resolution images and videos, the proliferation of internet-
connected devices, and the everyday usage of the internet. Suddenly, a high
influx of users can overload the system with high-throughput and send the
whole thing crashing due to lack of bandwidth.

Simply put, the internet is becoming a victim of its success and needs to be
redesigned to allow it to sustain further growth.

Second, the system is **unsecure**. How do we know the data we asked for has
not been tampered with? How do we know a hacker has not compromised facebook’s
server or even intercepted our requests? With current web2 systems, it is
impossible to interact with the web without making dangerous assumptions
regarding the trustworthiness of its actors.

Furthermore, our data might become inaccessible if some catastrophic incident
ever occurred to the server.

Finally, Web2 applications are susceptible to **censorship**. Whoever controls
the server, controls the data. This becomes an increasing cause of concern as
our lives become intrinsically connected to the internet in the areas of
information, business, and even our social lives. Companies, governments, and
agencies can control which data people have access to, and thus, who is
allowed to live digitally on the web.

IPFS addresses all of the aforementioned problems and is the Web3 that will
allow the internet to grow further.

## What makes IPFS different?

IPFS consists of an amalgamation of innovations in areas such as cryptography
and distributed technology, attempting to be a replacement of the HTTP
protocol and a departure from the client-server architecture described above.

Unlike HTTP, IPFS uses a DHT(distributed hash table) to fetch its data through
a **peer-to-peer network**. This works a bit like BitTorrent, a popular file-
sharing protocol. For IPFS, the protocol is called BitSwap. Files are cut in
many chunks and organized in a special structure called a Merkle dag which
allows each piece to be securely shared in a network peer. Just like in
BitTorrent, the data is still available if a peer goes down. This removes the
problem of having a single central server doing all the processing and the
risks of that one server going down, which, in turn, creates a more robust
internet infrastructure. And with reliance on a network of peers rather than a
central server, the data is censorship-resistant since removing the data would
require removing the data from every single peer possessing that data, which
is infeasible.

[ ![intro2](../../static/01030c5e1b15f6a7801c716bec8d9203/72b22/intro2.jpg)
](../../static/01030c5e1b15f6a7801c716bec8d9203/72b22/intro2.jpg)

Another innovation lies in the use of **content addressing** vs location
addressing. The difference is subtle, but the consequences profound. HTTP
works through location addressing. The addresses you type in the browser are
converted to an IP address which locates the server possessing the file.
Location addressing simply fetches a certain file at a certain location and
there is no guarantee that the file has not been tampered with.

Content addressing, on the other hand, identifies files through a unique
identifier, called CID. The CID contains the unique fingerprint of the file
produced through cryptographic hashing, which are mathematical functions
behind much of today’s encrypted systems. In other words, once the user
receives the file, he can run it through a series of calculations and verify
that it matches the CID he requested. If both the computed CID and the
requested CID match, we know there is nothing to worry about regarding data
integrity.

Also, since we are searching for the content of a file, rather than its
location, the file can be served from any peers, even those nearby. Imagine
being served a file by a neighbor a few hundred meters away instead of a
server in another country. Isn’t it considerably faster that way?

The combination of the peer to peer network and content addressing solves the
three problems highlighted above with Web1 and Web2 architectures and allows
the internet to be **efficient, secure, and censorship-resistant**.

## Wait! There’s more!

We have but scratched the surface of the technology and innovation behind
IPFS. It is already a vibrant ecosystem bustling with interesting ideas and
projects. However, the summary above should give you a good understanding of
why IPFS is needed, why it will radically change the way the Internet
operates, and why it is generating so much interest.

## Connect with Fleek team

  * [Sign up](https://app.fleek.co) to try yourself
  * Join our [Community Chat](https://slack.fleek.co/)
  * Follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/FleekHQ)
  * Check out our [Tech Docs](https://docs.fleek.co/)
  * Contact us at support@fleek.co

Published 24 Mar 2020

  * [Guide](../../tag/guide/)
  * [IPFS](../../tag/ipfs/)

Fleek is all you need to build websites and apps on the new Open Web:
permissionless, trustless, censorship resistant, and free of centralized
gatekeepers. Welcome to the new internet.[](https://www.twitter.com/FleekHQ)

