[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/b262701792e5&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Dapper
Labs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*4qrJW34TWRKo2UlCo9IqbQ.png)](https://medium.com/dapperlabs?source=post_page
-----b262701792e5--------------------------------)

Published in

[Dapper Labs

](https://medium.com/dapperlabs?source=post_page-----
b262701792e5--------------------------------)

[![Dapper
Labs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*4qrJW34TWRKo2UlCo9IqbQ.png)](/@hellodapper?source=post_page
-----b262701792e5--------------------------------)

[Dapper Labs](/@hellodapper?source=post_page-----
b262701792e5--------------------------------)

Follow

Aug 26, 2019

·

5 min read

# A step-by-step walkthrough of a Cheeze Wizards duel

## Soon, you’ll be able to experience the magic and power of a duel between
Cheeze Wizards. Here’s everything you need to know.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*890wRTw0t4IscrUhMd_VsQ.png)

A duel between Cheeze Wizards is the only form of combat where participants
must both bring wands and arrive unarmed.

When Cheeze Wizard global tournament launches in a few weeks, The Gathering
begins. During this first phase of the tournament, players can summon Wizards
and form parties.

During the next and second phase of the tournament, The Beat and Greet,
players can still summon Wizards and form parties—but now they can duel for
power and glory as well.

To participate in the tournament, a player has one of their Wizards battle
another player’s Wizard in a one-on-one duel.

#  **What is a Cheeze Wizards’ duel?**

A duel is a magical showdown between two Cheeze Wizards. Both risk their power
to steal the other’s — but only one dueling Wizard will succeed.

Technically speaking, a duel begins when a Wizard accepts a challenge. (In
spirit, most duels begin with Wizards insulting each other in online forums.)

Next, each Wizard selects five spells to cast, one for each of the five rounds
of the duel. The locals call this “Forecasting.” The duel takes place once
both Wizards forecast their spells.

Each spell makes up a single round of the duel. You win a round by using a
spell that beats your opponent’s spell element. To understand how spell
elements work, it’s as easy as rock, paper, scissors.

  * Fire beats Wind
  * Wind beats Water
  * Water beats Fire

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*EK6LUCkTl7mFZ39g)

Every Cheeze Wizards spell is cast from one of the three elements: wind, fire,
and water.

After five rounds, the results of the duel are revealed, and the Wizard who
won the most rounds is declared the victor!

#  **So how do I duel?**

You could try taking off your glove and hitting your neighbor with it.

But to start a Wizard duel, a few things need to be true:

  * Your Wizard is still in the tournament
  * Duels are currently taking place in the tournament
  * Your Wizard is not Ascending

If all of that is true, dueling is a piece of (cheeze)cake:

 **STEP 1:** Challenge a Wizard and wait for them to accept (or accept a
Challenge you’ve received).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1352/1*38YMsO-xhd_-IKWkSUGUWQ.png)

 **Step 1: Issue a challenge (or accept one)**

 **STEP 2:** Forecast (choose) five spells to cast, in order, for the five
rounds.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*F73UNeP3vUrVmfLlt3dzFg.png)

 **Step 2: Forecast your spells**

 **STEP 3:** Witness your Wizard’s glorious victory, or udder defeat!

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*o94D5uE5r-1cV11A6q6UIA.png)

 **Step 3: Brag about your victory, or make excuses for your defeat.** Note
that image isn’t completely game accurate — the power levels between the two
Wizards are too big for it to be a complete victory with 100% power transfer.

You can send out as many Challenges as you’d like, but the first Wizard to
accept will enter into the sacred dueling pact.

If a Wizard changes owners, or becomes more powerful than their opponent in
the time between challenging and accepting the challenge, the challenge is
cancelled.

#  **What do I get when I win a Duel?**

In addition to bragging rights, the victorious Wizard takes a slice of power
from their opponent, adding it to their own power.

How much power you gain by winning a duel depends on three things:

  * the size of the duel victory,
  * the power difference between the two wizards, and
  * the presence of Blue Mold.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*p1mme-HXA_9RPcd5RzQ1jA.png)

 **The size of a Wizard’s duel victory is largely determined by how many
rounds they win.** A little victory, for example, might be winning three
rounds and losing the other two. A big victory would be four round wins and
one tie. Also, later rounds count a little more than earlier rounds (once the
Wizards warm up and really get into the spirit of the duel). If you’re only
going to win one round, save the best for last!

 **Wizards can make their winning round count more by using their affiliated
elemental spell.** Just be careful, as losing a round when using an affiliated
elemental spell make the win count more for your opponent. And this effect can
stack:

  1. Let’s say a Fire Wizard is daring enough to use a Fire spell against your Water Wizard in the last round of the duel…
  2. But you and your Water Wizard have correctly forecasted a Water spell in that round…
  3. The damage to their Fire Wizard will be devastating

In this example, the Fire Wizard may have been favoured to win the duel up
until the last round, but because of their lust for power, they may have lost
it all!

 **Yet even the weakest Wizards can triumph if they manage to win all five
rounds — a flawless victory.** (Flawless victors are heartily encouraged to do
their best Mortal Kombat announcer impressions.) One such victory just might
see a low-level Wizard slice off a big chunk of power from a high-level
Wizard. Weirder things — like birth by bovine nipple — have happened.

##  _Just beware the Blue Mold…_

In the last phase of the Cheeze Wizards tournament, The Championship, Wizards
can no longer be summoned, duels are ongoing, and the Blue Mold appears. As
time passes, the Blue Mold climbs up tournament tower.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*EsOyRYbQobJfMk5a)

During the final phase of the Cheeze Wizards Tournament, the Blue Mold grows
in power…

As the Blue Mold rises, it sets the minimum power level required for a Wizard
to remain in the Tournament. If your Wizard’s power level drops below the Blue
Mold threshold as the result of losing a duel, the victorious opposing Wizard
will absorb _all_ of your Wizard’s power.

Even Wizards not engaged in duels run the risk of being overtaken by the Blue
Mold. And the fate is terrible: overtaken Wizards will have their power
pasteurized. Eliminated. You’re out of the Tournament. Yowzers.

## Are you ready to d-d-d-d-duel!?

The Cheeze Wizards Tournament begins in a few weeks. [Signing up takes
seconds](https://www.cheezewizards.com/?utm_source=DLblog), you’ll be the
first to know when you can summon Wizards, form parties, and duel!

## [> Don’t miss your chance to duel for glory, power, and whole lot of
cheddar!](https://www.cheezewizards.com/?utm_source=DLblog)

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Dapper Labs](/dapperlabs?source=post_page-----
b262701792e5--------------------------------)

The serious business of fun and games on the blockchain

[Read more from Dapper Labs](/dapperlabs?source=post_page-----
b262701792e5--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Zach](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*1wrWwuyj8ypeprhcdPbIpw.jpeg)](/@sergeantsnipesgaming?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Zach

](/@sergeantsnipesgaming?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Overwatch: Flankers cant be nerfed without being garbage.

](/@sergeantsnipesgaming/overwatch-flankers-cant-be-nerfed-without-being-
garbage-677d21e90f0c?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Cyberpop
Metaverse](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*YqKWD1E8JTNDZ51rVYGLDQ.png)](/@Cyberpopmetaverse?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Cyberpop Metaverse

](/@Cyberpopmetaverse?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## 2\. UGC: Build your Cyberspace

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*hY7R9x5HbVwQyelDpoS6Hw.png)](/@Cyberpopmetaverse/2-ugc-
build-your-cyberspace-10c22fb6cbc4?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Shawn
\(@TheSilkiest\)](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*97OZTvaXssBnFP_f.jpg)](/@thesilkiest?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Shawn (@TheSilkiest)

](/@thesilkiest?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Word Vomit: Kane & Lynch 2: Dog Days

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*ilfmFP0YQAy_vT-2YG4fWw.jpeg)](/@thesilkiest/word-
vomit-kane-lynch-2-dog-days-5edc3adeab92?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Jason
Mcintosh](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*lDEhtlV8z16dG4L3)](/@jason.mcintosh?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Jason Mcintosh

](/@jason.mcintosh?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Starting a Technology Camp at an Esports Center

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*JUO9-IHOFM9zJe5nvYr6sg.jpeg)](/@jason.mcintosh/starting-
a-technology-camp-at-an-esports-center-da12a6d8164?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[[![Kokushi
|MCH](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dR3rugi09x5TdYu3qWz7FA.png)](/@hattori_94319?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Kokushi |MCH

](/@hattori_94319?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

in

[My Crypto Heroes｜マイクリプトヒーローズ（マイクリ）

](https://medium.com/mycryptoheroes?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## [system]Battle progress rule（updated 4/5）

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*DyuBxiC8CHnDBNEcPP-
QFw.png)](/mycryptoheroes/system-battle-progress-
rule-1-19-supplement-70015e7cf9cf?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Kalyan
Keesara](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Ik0Epi2Lp8r5DyDHlC6MWA.png)](/@keesara.kalyan?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Kalyan Keesara

](/@keesara.kalyan?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[ILLUMINATION-Curated

](https://medium.com/illumination-curated?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## I lost 6,500 hours of my youth to gaming until I finally found a way out!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Xz0oLe5QxXGHvxdByeW1ng.jpeg)](/illumination-
curated/i-lost-6-500-hours-of-my-youth-to-gaming-until-i-finally-found-a-way-
out-87e8ee42b574?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Jeff
Onan](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*CZ1HGveQEXXOXSkcrGC0xQ.png)](/@jeffonan?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Jeff Onan

](/@jeffonan?source=post_internal_links---------6----------------------------)

in

[Golden Sands Blogpost

](https://medium.com/golden-sands-blogpost?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Ultimate Guide to Cursed Sails

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Ja5ODLoJPerlKcGY2u1mFA.png)](/golden-
sands-blogpost/ultimate-guide-to-cursed-
sails-9bb2920102da?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Jeff
Onan](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*CZ1HGveQEXXOXSkcrGC0xQ.png)](/@jeffonan?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Jeff Onan

](/@jeffonan?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

in

[Golden Sands Blogpost

](https://medium.com/golden-sands-blogpost?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## New Year News Hoard (1/14)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*TurQcIWnm1BgwXtpJcVNlQ.png)](/golden-
sands-blogpost/new-year-news-
hoard-1-14-afd999ecefa3?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----b262701792e5--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
b262701792e5--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
b262701792e5--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
b262701792e5--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
b262701792e5--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----b262701792e5--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----b262701792e5--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdapperlabs%2Fa-
step-by-step-walkthrough-of-a-cheeze-wizards-
duel-b262701792e5&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Dapper
Labs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*4qrJW34TWRKo2UlCo9IqbQ.png)](/@hellodapper)

[

## Dapper Labs

](/@hellodapper)

800 Followers

The serious business of fun and games on the blockchain

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F92fd7014333&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdapperlabs%2Fa-
step-by-step-walkthrough-of-a-cheeze-wizards-
duel-b262701792e5&newsletterV3=6544777e30d2&newsletterV3Id=92fd7014333&user=Dapper+Labs&userId=6544777e30d2&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Moonshot Collective Anon](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*NB2AEQ-
Ji2hKeg7O-2tbJQ.png)](/@moonshotanon?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------a5b3b610_c65e_4435_9cb6_26bfe46dad90-------)

[Moonshot Collective Anon

](/@moonshotanon?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
a5b3b610_c65e_4435_9cb6_26bfe46dad90-------)

in

[Moonshot Collective

](https://medium.com/moonshot-collective?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------a5b3b610_c65e_4435_9cb6_26bfe46dad90-------)

## Moonshot Collective Recap for January 2022

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*gDy9UG-1aMExyJoQ4ptGQQ.png)](/moonshot-
collective/moonshot-collective-recap-for-
january-2022-8d9328dc5318?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------a5b3b610_c65e_4435_9cb6_26bfe46dad90-------)

[[![Echelon DAO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Ttdr1W6lrbgC5N_oX-
xbOQ.png)](/@echelondao?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
a5b3b610_c65e_4435_9cb6_26bfe46dad90-------)

[Echelon DAO

](/@echelondao?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
a5b3b610_c65e_4435_9cb6_26bfe46dad90-------)

## Echelon DAO’s Proposed Migration to Polygon

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*QIJt-A6CyrzbD9cMI_RJvg.png)](/@echelondao/echelon-
daos-proposed-migration-to-polygon-5e5ede2216f7?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------a5b3b610_c65e_4435_9cb6_26bfe46dad90-------)

[[![LostBunnyWorld](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*BR3WNpTA1sHDn06UJeLo3g.jpeg)](/@lostbunnyworld?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------a5b3b610_c65e_4435_9cb6_26bfe46dad90-------)

[LostBunnyWorld

](/@lostbunnyworld?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
a5b3b610_c65e_4435_9cb6_26bfe46dad90-------)

## Lost Bunny Roadmap

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*cLjUeexuteMBCPRNVqAnJA.png)](/@lostbunnyworld/lost-
bunny-roadmap-cae6f2b6547?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------a5b3b610_c65e_4435_9cb6_26bfe46dad90-------)

[[![Coderlabny](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dM5S0mhj0vUNy7_nzAQURQ.png)](/@coderlabny?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------a5b3b610_c65e_4435_9cb6_26bfe46dad90-------)

[Coderlabny

](/@coderlabny?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
a5b3b610_c65e_4435_9cb6_26bfe46dad90-------)

## The Quick and Dirty Guide to get Up and Running with OmniChain NFTs

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*o2FIkTiLMrvcasUNlRHRhg.png)](/@coderlabny/the-
quick-and-dirty-guide-to-get-up-and-running-with-omnichain-
nfts-c85f89726cf8?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
a5b3b610_c65e_4435_9cb6_26bfe46dad90-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

