[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_96,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F888d6174-30a2-4f6a-9b86-34d5de531632_256x256.png)](https://wrongalot.substack.com)

# [Wrong A Lot](https://wrongalot.substack.com)

SubscribeSign in

Share this post

A.O.

wrongalot.substack.com

Copy link

Twitter

Facebook

Email

# A.O.

### Programmable assets as a form of artificial outelligence

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_90,h_90,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F5ebeb7cd-9271-45e8-a345-ec6c8ef731c2_48x48.png)](https://substack.com/profile/2568384-matti-)

|

[Matti ðŸ‘¾](https://substack.com/profile/2568384-matti-)

| Jan 13, 2020  
---  
  
[Comment](https://wrongalot.substack.com/p/ao/comments)

[Share](javascript:void\(0\))  
  
Human collective [unleashed a new form of unpredictable and resistant life
form](https://hackernoon.com/bitcoin-new-form-of-life-d7a6ee0985f4) with
potentially more immediate impact than AI itself.

Programmable assets solve human [coordination
problems](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/02/money-blockchains-and-
social-scalability.html), as their behavior becomes [more
predictable](https://www.cs.huji.ac.il/labs/learning/Papers/allerton.pdf). We
program our behavior rather than the asset itself, thus organize ourselves
with greater specificity. Human interaction conforms to the law of the code.

Consider a concept of _artificial outelligence_ put forward by Eric
Weinstein.[ An unintelligent computer system that evolves by hijacking the
minds it dupes &
outwits.](https://twitter.com/ericrweinstein/status/867050623174295552)
Outelligence is a form of an unintelligent life outwitting an intelligent
life.

In nature we can observe particular species of muscles fooling more
intelligent lifeform. A sea bass, that is tricked to bite its flashy lip
confusing it with a particular fish it preys on, with the[ mussel releasing
itâ€™s larvae into bass' gills](https://www.wired.com/2015/10/absurd-creature-
of-the-week-lampsilis/).

## Software As A Life Form

In Weinsteinn's framework in order to achieve _life_ you need a system of
selective pressures:

  * Variation within population

  * Heritability

  * Differential success

Any computer software with [spawn
function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spawn_\(computing\)) (in an open-
source environment) is a [form of artificial
outelligence](https://www.stitcher.com/podcast/anchor-podcasts/intellectual-
dark-web/e/59557487). [As organisms evolve through changes in their DNA,
blockchain protocols evolve through changes in their
code](https://medium.com/@FEhrsam/funding-the-evolution-of-
blockchains-87d160988481). Blockchains have terminal lines. Selective
pressures are present.

Think of human interaction with â€˜programmable assetsâ€™ as a case of highly
intelligent dupe fooled by lower life form. Consider Bitcoin a relatively
simple code that _duped_ people to form an economy around it - mining, buying
and paying with it.

Bitcoin is a software that self-sustains its own existence [by paying human
for its life
support](https://twitter.com/Iiterature/status/1153041444946370560?s=20).
Humans organize themselves around bitcoinâ€™s code that endogenously â€˜[specifies
provision and payment for
computation](https://twitter.com/Iiterature/status/1153031641733849088?s=20)â€™.

## Humans And Machines

As we get smart enough to avoid the luring strategy, weaker lines of
outelligence get eliminated. Our own intelligence sharpens the lures of an
unintelligent lifeforms by adjusting the code (think hardfork). Stronger code
carries on.

Imagine an arms race between parasitized target species getting smarter and
the other less intelligent or non-intelligent object getting â€˜ _as smarterâ€™_
by adapting new strategy.

In nature, [there is a thin
line](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22349861) between symbiosis and
parasitism. Artificial outelligence runs loose and modifies human interaction
which then modifies the behavior of the outelligence by adjusting the code.

Whereas artificial intelligence, acting in centralized isolation, denies human
agency, the concept of outelligence represents continuous _reflexive_ loops of
machine and human interaction.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_lossy/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F6f3285f8-2832-4cdc-9a0f-2aedf0b758e6_960x720.gif)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F6f3285f8-2832-4cdc-9a0f-2aedf0b758e6_960x720.gif)

[CommentComment](https://wrongalot.substack.com/p/ao/comments)

[ShareShare](javascript:void\(0\))

![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_66,h_66,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fsubstack.com%2Fimg%2Favatars%2Flogged-
out.png)

## Create your profile

Your nameYour bio Subscribe to the newsletter

0 subscriptions will be displayed on your profile (edit)

Skip for now

Save & Post Comment

## Only paid subscribers can comment on this post

[Already a paid subscriber? **Sign in**](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fao&for_pub=wrongalot&change_user=false)

#### Check your email

For your security, we need to re-authenticate you.

Click the link we sent to , or [click here to sign
in](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fao&for_pub=wrongalot&with_password=true).

TopNewCommunity[](javascript:void\(0\))

No posts

# Ready for more?

 **Subscribe**

Â© 2022 Matti ðŸ‘¾

[Privacy](https://wrongalot.substack.com/privacy) âˆ™ [Terms](/tos) âˆ™
[Collection notice](https://substack.com/ccpa#personal-data-collected)

[ Publish on
Substack](https://substack.com/signup?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=web&utm_content=footer)[
Get the app](https://substack.com/app/app-store-redirect?utm_campaign=app-
marketing&utm_content=web-footer-button)

[Substack](https://substack.com) is the home for great writing

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please [turn on
JavaScript](https://enable-javascript.com/) or unblock scripts

