![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/abra-adds-oxt-support/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/abra-adds-oxt-support/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/abra-adds-oxt-support/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/abra-adds-oxt-support/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/abra-adds-oxt-support/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/abra-adds-oxt-support/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Abra adds OXT support, continuing Orchid’s
expansion](/static/805cd0d896bda305653ea15313d11cd4/Orchid_BlogImage_Abra.jpg)

# Abra adds OXT support, continuing Orchid’s expansion

Jun 5, 2020  
  

OXT support is being included as part of [Abra's](https://www.abra.com/)
latest app release for iOS and Android. Users will be able to buy, hold,
deposit, and withdraw OXT as well as trade it for any other token via any Abra
app. The first release will be for non US users only although Abra hopes to
bring OXT support to US users in the future.

Orchid Co-Founder and CEO Steven Waterhouse said: "Abra is one of the best-
known platforms in the crypto space and we are excited that they have chosen
to include OXT in their app. This is validation of all the hard work we have
done since launching Orchid late last year to let people browse the Internet
and stay curious."

Abra operates an easy to use app allowing users to buy, sell, store, and
invest in cryptocurrencies, plus manage all crypto investments, in one single
place. Abra's vision is an open, global financial system that is easily
accessible to everyone.

Orchid's unique VPN marketplace uses a robust system of incentives to match
supply with demand and ensure ample bandwidth is available. Users use OXT to
fund their account, and can then purchase VPN service on a pay-as-you-go
basis.

[Download the Orchid app](https://www.orchid.com/download) to start exploring
the Internet freely.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [Partnerships](/tag/partnerships/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Abra%20adds%20OXT%20support%2C%20continuing%20Orchid%E2%80%99s%20expansion%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fabra-
adds-oxt-support%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fabra-
adds-oxt-support%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fabra-
adds-oxt-support%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

[

#### OXT is Listed on Vauld

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

Jan 14, 2022

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

