Skip to content

##  [ Caitlin Long ](https://caitlin-long.com)

Menu

  * [Home](https://caitlin-long.com/)
  * [Disclaimer](https://caitlin-long.com/disclaimer/)
  * [Blockchain](https://caitlin-long.com/category/blockchain/)
  * [Economics](https://caitlin-long.com/category/economics/)
  * [Pensions](https://caitlin-long.com/category/pensions/)
  * [About Caitlin](https://caitlin-long.com/about-caitlin/)

![page of a textbook about Caitlin being an outstanding
alumna](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw==)![page
of a textbook about Caitlin being an outstanding
alumna](https://secureservercdn.net/198.71.233.179/69l.92a.myftpupload.com/wp-
content/uploads/bb-plugin/cache/fullsizeoutput_5668-1-panorama.jpeg)

#  Acceptance Speech for Outstanding Alumnus 2019, UW College of Arts and
Sciences

May 4, 2019 / [pwsadmin](https://caitlin-long.com/author/pwsadmin/) / [No
Comments](https://caitlin-long.com/acceptance-speech-for-outstanding-
alumnus-2019-uw-college-of-arts-and-sciences-2/#respond)

![Caitlyn Long outstanding
alumnus](https://secureservercdn.net/198.71.233.179/69l.92a.myftpupload.com/wp-
content/uploads/2019/12/fullsizeoutput_5662.jpeg)

_Here is a text of my speech to the University of Wyoming College of Arts &
Sciences awards banquet in Laramie on May 4, 2019, accepting with gratitude
and pride the award for [Outstanding Alumnus
2019](http://www.uwyo.edu/as/outstanding-awardees/2019/caitlin_long.html)._

Thank you, Dean Lutz. Thank you also to the nominators, selection committee,
the Arts & Sciences Board of Visitors, and to my family who traveled to join
us here today. It was an honor to have served on the Board of Visitors from
1997-2015, so it’s particularly thrilling to be back with many familiar faces
today.

But most especially thank you to my teachers, the best of whom were Mom and
Dad. They were both gifted teachers in their realms—Mom taught grades 4-6 in
Rock River, and Dad was an electrical engineering professor at UW for 40
years. They were not only great parents, but they were great teachers too.
Very special thanks to so many other gifted teachers along the way, two of
whom are here today–Dean Oliver Walter and Dr. Ric Reverand—and to the late
Dr. Mike Horan, the late Dr. Fred Homer and to Dr. Gregg Cawley. Plus, thanks
to many Laramie school teachers, especially Dan Nelson and Dan Rulli. It was
an honor to learn from all of you, and all of you share in this recognition.

I’m a proud product of Wyoming’s schools, and a proud product of UW!

The College of Arts & Science’s motto is “Prepare for Complete Living” – and
it does. UW taught me _how_ to think, and specifically how to be what I call a
“systemic thinker.” Systemic thinkers are pattern spotters and puzzle solvers
who think across disciplines and who fight the cultural tendency to specialize
narrowly. They can think not only within their chosen verticals, but
horizontally across others as well. They’re not afraid to leave their swim
lanes.

Yes, of course Harvard has been a valuable credential, but UW provided
something far more valuable: it taught me how to think, systemically. UW was
comparatively more interested in teaching  _how_  to think than teaching
_what_  to think.

Speaking of Harvard, here are two stories that book-end my time there, from
the very first day to something that happened just last month. In that first
class at the Kennedy School in 1990, we were studying gun control. Throughout
the class the professor kept making fun of people from Wyoming. Please
understand I was a basket of nerves and insecurity—I hadn’t spent much time
away from home yet and was surrounded by fellow students who had already
traveled the world, worked in big jobs and spoke foreign languages. (Only
later did I realize almost everyone else had similar insecurities too!) After
hearing the professor disparage Wyomingites for about an hour, I finally
conjured up the nerve to raise my hand and reveal that I was from Wyoming—at
which time the whole classroom broke into laughter. It broke the ice. The
Wyoming kid was a curiosity.

Fast forward to my law school reunion a few weeks ago, and again the
Wyomingite was a curiosity—but this time for an entirely different reason.
Harvard asked me to speak at our 25th law school reunion, because so many
classmates wanted to hear about this white-hot new technology called
“blockchain” and how Wyoming, of all places, ended up as the definitive leader
in it.

I’m so proud of the Wyoming legislature’s leadership in this area. Most of you
probably already know that Wyoming’s lawmakers have been leaders in many areas
throughout its storied history. Wyoming Territory was the first to grant women
the right to vote, and it stood up to Congressional pressure to take that back
before finally becoming a state. We had the first woman governor, the first
woman bailiff and the first all-woman jury. More recently, in 1977 Wyoming
invented something that changed the business world for the better—the limited
liability company. (In fact, Perry Dray (former law partner of Greg Dyekman,
who’s with us today), is credited with that invention. I used to play tennis
with the Dray kids but had no idea until years later the significance of their
father’s accomplishment!)

Today, Wyoming is leading again, this time in blockchain—a technology that
will change all of our lives for the better. Wyoming has already attracted
important companies to move here and is on the verge of attracting more.

But here’s a confession. As a kid, I really wanted to leave and explore the
big world. I’ve lived away for many years but never stopped calling Wyoming
home, and have kept coming back to serve on various UW boards almost
continuously ever since. For years I’ve half-joked it will take the rest of my
life to figure out how to come back to Wyoming. Well, it actually didn’t that
long. I’m in the process of moving back to help build the blockchain tech
sector here. There’s much work to do to finish what we’ve started building.
Thank you to UW, which has already been teaching blockchain classes for three
years, and which has been an effective partner in the economic development
effort.

Wyoming and blockchain fit so well together because Wyoming’s values overlap
with the ethos of blockchain: rugged individualism, privacy, clear property
rights, no state taxes. What’s mine is mine and what’s yours is yours. Good
fences make good neighbors. All as it should be.

UW gave me the tools to spot the importance of blockchain technology in its
early stage, to understand its historical significance, and to understand how
it can help solve Wyoming’s economic development needs. I can’t think of a
better volunteer passion project—what an honor it has been to pay it forward!

Let me close with a contrast. Of course, my Harvard experience was amazing,
but—admittedly simplifying here—the two most important parts were getting in
and graduating. By contrast, at UW the valuable parts were everything that
happened in between getting in and graduating, and everything that has
happened since.

Thank you to all of you who made that so!  

Posted in [Blockchain](https://caitlin-long.com/category/blockchain/)

![CAITLIN
LONG](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw==)![CAITLIN
LONG](https://secureservercdn.net/198.71.233.179/69l.92a.myftpupload.com/wp-
content/uploads/2019/12/Caitlin_Hero.png)

###  [ CAITLIN LONG ](/about-caitlin/)

Bitcoin/blockchain, ex-Wyoming Blockchain Task Force, 22-year Wall Street
veteran.

###  Disclaimer

This web site is limited to the dissemination of general information,
investment-related information, publications, and links.

Please consult important additional information and qualifications
[HERE](/disclaimer/).

View [**Privacy Policy**](/privacy-policy/) and [**Terms of Use**](/terms-of-
use/)

###  Connect with me on Social Media

[ __](https://www.facebook.com/Caitlin-Long-192638687800053/ "Facebook") [
__](https://twitter.com/caitlinlong_/ "Twitter") [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/authwall?trk=ripf&trkInfo=AQHrFIBCEKp8
RgAAAW6kZK5gKGBfoaOL4RcdaPrSapGmg3lV3BqVJKngH8DyEZG16po6ZlgMjS-
cnC8oJTie6XRHg9hLwQd31jCcPE_5JRA65SJ4TlOGMAlTj5tJMLk
1M7xEtE=&originalReferer=https://caitlin-long.com/&sessionRedirect=https%3A
%2F%2Fwww.linkedin.com%2Fin%2Fcaitlin-long-356b383a%2F "LinkedIn")

## Search Posts

[Tweets by CaitlinLong_](https://twitter.com/CaitlinLong_)

## Categories

  * [Blockchain](https://caitlin-long.com/category/blockchain/)
  * [Economics](https://caitlin-long.com/category/economics/)
  * [homeblog](https://caitlin-long.com/category/homeblog/)
  * [Pensions](https://caitlin-long.com/category/pensions/)

## Recent Posts

  * [An Update from Wyoming](https://caitlin-long.com/an-update-from-wyoming/) November 20, 2019
  * [The Real Story Of The Repo Market Meltdown, And What It Means For Bitcoin](https://caitlin-long.com/the-real-story-of-the-repo-market-meltdown-and-what-it-means-for-bitcoin/) September 23, 2019
  * [WyoHackathon 2019 Takeaways: Kids Rule, Hardware Wallets Fly and Wyoming Wins](https://caitlin-long.com/wyohackathon-2019-takeaways-kids-rule-hardware-wallets-fly-and-wyoming-wins/) September 23, 2019
  * [Facebook’s Cryptocurrency, Libra: Senate Banking Testimony](https://caitlin-long.com/facebooks-cryptocurrency-libra-senate-banking-testimony/) July 15, 2019
  * [Bitcoin, The Dollar And Facebook’s Cryptocurrency: Price Volatility Versus Systemic Volatility](https://caitlin-long.com/bitcoin-the-dollar-and-facebooks-cryptocurrency-price-volatility-versus-systemic-volatility/) June 29, 2019

## Post navigation

[<- Seismic News About State Virtual Currency Laws: ULC Urges States To
Withdraw Model Act](https://caitlin-long.com/seismic-news-about-state-virtual-
currency-laws-ulc-urges-states-to-withdraw-model-act/)

[Naked Shorting In The Uber IPO: It Couldn’t Happen On A Blockchain
->](https://caitlin-long.com/naked-shorting-in-the-uber-ipo-it-couldnt-happen-
on-a-blockchain/)

[ __](https://www.facebook.com/Caitlin-Long-192638687800053/ "Facebook") [
__](https://twitter.com/caitlinlong_/ "Twitter") [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/authwall?trk=ripf&trkInfo=AQHrFIBCEKp8
RgAAAW6kZK5gKGBfoaOL4RcdaPrSapGmg3lV3BqVJKngH8DyEZG16po6ZlgMjS-
cnC8oJTie6XRHg9hLwQd31jCcPE_5JRA65SJ4TlOGMAlTj5tJMLk
1M7xEtE=&originalReferer=https://caitlin-long.com/&sessionRedirect=https%3A
%2F%2Fwww.linkedin.com%2Fin%2Fcaitlin-long-356b383a%2F "LinkedIn")

  * [Home](https://caitlin-long.com/)
  * [Disclaimer](https://caitlin-long.com/disclaimer/)
  * [Blockchain](https://caitlin-long.com/category/blockchain/)
  * [Economics](https://caitlin-long.com/category/economics/)
  * [Pensions](https://caitlin-long.com/category/pensions/)
  * [About Caitlin](https://caitlin-long.com/about-caitlin/)
  * [Privacy Policy](https://caitlin-long.com/privacy-policy/)
  * [Terms of Use](https://caitlin-long.com/terms-of-use/)

© 2019, Caitlin Long. All Rights Reserved.

[![GoDaddy Web
Design](//nebula.wsimg.com/aadc63d8e8dbd533470bdc4e350bc4af?AccessKeyId=B7351D786AE96FEF6EBB&disposition=0&alloworigin=1)](https://www.godaddy.com/websites/web-
design)

Scroll To Top __

