[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![AKASHA 2019: Metamorphosis Part
I](/static/d29caad53b1b5e6e93ea0262b3422a3d/2a43b/metamorphosis.jpg)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

## AKASHA 2019: Metamorphosis Part I

By [Mihai Alisie](/blog/author/mihai-alisie/)

·

January 15, 2019

This post has been in the making (and remaking) for months now, through every
conversation and interaction we had as a team, project and community. This
will be the first of a series of posts breaking the silence surrounding
AKASHA.

From the outside, it might have seemed at times like not much was happening
or, even worse, that the project is “dead”. We’re still here, alive and
kicking, even though it was hard to tell.

On this note, I personally apologize for not being more communicative during
all this time.

[ ![Apologies](/static/1bf4027fca954e0c715106bd9c6a03ae/1c72d/heart-hand.jpg)
](/static/1bf4027fca954e0c715106bd9c6a03ae/3acf0/heart-hand.jpg)

The main reason behind this communication gap was that the very essence of
what _AKASHA_ is and what it can become has grown into something new.

It is very challenging to write about something that you don’t yet understand
fully yourself. At least for me. I tried a few times to write a post just to
find myself stopping in the middle of it thinking “wait, is _this_ it?!”

So, we all took a moment to do some profound thinking about the many possible
ways forward without wasting energy on pretending that we have “the”
answer(s).

[ ![Wait, WAT?!](/static/a69d6df257346cbe8e711c9420d2e4f2/1c72d/cube-
exploration.jpg) ](/static/a69d6df257346cbe8e711c9420d2e4f2/f1452/cube-
exploration.jpg)

This is why, for the sake of broader exploration and deeper understanding, we
sacrificed the clarity associated with well defined long-term plans. This is
generally a bad idea and many would advise against it. As the old military
aphorism goes: plans are worthless but planning is everything.

The upside comes when promising ideas are uncovered, ideas that we might
otherwise have missed. One could also argue that it is very hard (or even
impossible) to succeed in the long-term without taking time to explore the
possibilities — especially when considering the “blockchain” space as whole
and how little is actually known today.

However, lack of clarity is also dangerous because it can cascade rapidly into
chaos, especially when it comes to the “what” and “how.” Not to mention that
without a strong “why” it’s easy to get lost forever in this uncharted
multiverse.

It’s a dangerous dance filled with uncertainty.

[ ![Dancing in the
space](/static/644ed6c0a132ed5c706b99fd4a0ab25e/1c72d/space-dance.jpg)
](/static/644ed6c0a132ed5c706b99fd4a0ab25e/572c8/space-dance.jpg)

The longer the dance, the bigger the chance of eroding the morale of the team,
project and community. On the other hand, this risky dance is key to opening
new fractals of possibilities and unlocking new ways of thinking.

We’re excited to be in this point where we can finally share some of these
insights with you and we are looking forward to hearing your thoughts!

But, before moving on, I would like to give a BIG SHOUT OUT to those of you
that kept us in their minds and hearts even during this long pause! You’re
awesome!!!

And not lastly, a BIG, BIG **THANK YOU!!!** to everyone caring enough about
AKASHA to read these lines. We hope you’ll enjoy the new horizons described in
this post as much as we do!

\o/

### Highlights Conferences 2018: Heidelberg Laureate Forum

[ ![Wandering and
Wondering](/static/956a8b2aacafd70453201791a6c0c57b/1c72d/colorful-path.jpg)
](/static/956a8b2aacafd70453201791a6c0c57b/e0f57/colorful-path.jpg)

> Not all those who wander are lost. — J.R.R. Tolkien, The Fellowship of the
> Ring

Starting with the [EDCON](https://www.edcon.io/) conference in Toronto in May,
we also attended the
[Cryptscience](https://www.blockchainforscience.com/2018/02/20/cryptscience2018/)
unconference in Zug, the Present and Future Regulatory Environment on
Blockchain at EU Level event in Bucharest, the [Heidelberg Laureate
Forum](https://www.heidelberg-laureate-forum.org/), and the first [Blockchain
for Science](https://www.blockchainforscience.com/) conference co-organized in
Berlin.

Although each event was unique and amazing in its own way, the [Heidelberg
Laureate Forum](https://www.heidelberg-laureate-forum.org/) (HLF) stands out
from the crowd. Those interested in the other events can find [more info on
EDCON and the presentation in this
article](https://akasha.org/blog/2018/05/23/akasha-odyssey-year-two),
alongside [this video](https://youtu.be/3rX3NjmUzgE) with
[Martin](https://akasha.org/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/) presenting at
Blockchain For Science.

When I received the invitation to speak at the HLF I have to admit that I did
not know exactly what to expect. The invitation came to me as a bit of
surprise but the good kind of surprise. It looked different from all the other
conferences I attended until then and with speakers of the highest academic
caliber — many with a Fields Medal or Turing Award, both the equivalent of the
Nobel Prize for mathematics and the computer sciences respectively.

[ ![The HLF Squad](/static/f395c8d3f65ccd97ad26ba5f327231d4/1c72d/hlf-
intro.jpg) ](/static/f395c8d3f65ccd97ad26ba5f327231d4/72e01/hlf-intro.jpg)

At first I felt intimidated but also grateful to have the opportunity to
interact with some of the brightest minds on the planet and discuss ideas that
can improve the world.

“Epic” I thought to myself.

When we arrived, I received a request for a press conference as many
journalists asked for an interview. The questions varied from concerns related
to the climate impact of proof-of-work energy consumption to more specific
questions such as “how could blockchain help refugees?”

Overall, it’s clear that the general level of awareness and understanding when
it comes to “blockchain” is increasing from one year to the next. Cool.

[ ![The HLF Dinner Part I](/static/16c8823084fa967c770a3134c9dfac2f/1c72d/hlf-
dinner.jpg) ](/static/16c8823084fa967c770a3134c9dfac2f/72e01/hlf-dinner.jpg)

That evening at the dinner ceremony, Vint Cerf received an honorary badge for
his lifetime contributions as one of the "fathers of the Internet". It was
also an opportunity to meet my fellow presenters for the sessions scheduled
the next day.

[ ![Kudos Vint Cerf](/static/d1a3c2274e8d7430ed4e85f1a46a5e83/1c72d/vint-
cerf.jpg) ](/static/d1a3c2274e8d7430ed4e85f1a46a5e83/72e01/vint-cerf.jpg)

Although I came in originally feeling a bit out of place, I found myself
surrounded by engaging and friendly people. I did not feel out of place
anymore, but rather part of something bigger.

During the next day, our AKASHA presentation focused on our active research.
This includes conversational DAOs, (inter)personal data and concepts like
social identity. The intention was to make it clear that “blockchain” can mean
more than cryptocurrency, to inspire the audience to contemplate use-cases
going beyond the now classic “digital currency” scenario.

[ ![In the flow](/static/a28fe6bb5f0bd409df6a599bfa03ea03/1c72d/mihai-
presentation2.jpg) ](/static/a28fe6bb5f0bd409df6a599bfa03ea03/72e01/mihai-
presentation2.jpg)

Those interested in watching our HLF presentation can [find it
here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GNKm6LPUXfA), alongside the panel
discussion where we touched upon various topics including emergent social
networks, self-governance and self-organization.

After the panel discussion we were whisked away to the [Speyer Technic
Museum](https://speyer.technik-museum.de/en/) where we had another opportunity
to mingle and exchange ideas.

[ ![Speyer](/static/a5a51461381f678f31773887c84545fc/1c72d/hlf-speier2.jpg)
](/static/a5a51461381f678f31773887c84545fc/72e01/hlf-speier2.jpg)

And yes, for those wondering, that big space shuttle you see in the pictures
is **the[Buran](https://speyer.technik-museum.de/en/spaceshuttle-buran) \- a
russian space shuttle that actually flew to space.** Just the kind of backdrop
you need for a brief exchange with [Whitfield
Diffie](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whitfield_Diffie).

During this special evening taking place in this amazing place, shaking hands
with Vint Cerf and talking about interplanetary Internet, IPFS and Ethereum
felt surreal. I _almost_ asked for a selfie, but I didn’t want to ruin the
moment -_-;

Sitting at the dinner table with the [ACM (Association for Computing
Machinery)](https://www.acm.org/) committee, president and ex-president was
also very, very enjoyable. Among other things, we found ourselves discussing
blockchain, climate monitoring and rapid response solutions when disasters
strike.

Before the end of the evening, we also had an amazing presentation from
Professor Stefan Jordan on the ongoing efforts by the European Space Agency's
[GAIA mission](https://zah.uni-heidelberg.de/institutes/ari/gaia/what-is-
gaia/) to create the most comprehensive map of our galaxy.

[ ![Reaching for the
stars](/static/1ab1e3674852d300510edadba9cc8fe1/1c72d/hlf-gaia.jpg)
](/static/1ab1e3674852d300510edadba9cc8fe1/72e01/hlf-gaia.jpg)

We left Heidelberg inspired and energized to buidl something shooting for the
stars. Also, we left knowing that both the academic and blockchain communities
have (many) things to learn from each other and that the most promising way
forward is to tackle the biggest challenges we face from a multi-disciplinary
perspective.

It's still (very) early, but we hope that through our presence we helped to
plant the seeds and build the bridges needed for this to happen.

### Expanding our Collective Mind

> Walking with a friend in the dark is better than walking alone in the light.
> — Helen Keller

[ ![The A Team](/static/7507effc7789d7d087b5de30bf4c3dda/1c72d/team-photo.jpg)
](/static/7507effc7789d7d087b5de30bf4c3dda/a2510/team-photo.jpg)

_We are missing Anderson, Mariana, and Belen in this photo, but it’s the most
complete one we have all together (for now)._

The year 2018 was also marked by growth when it comes to our team. AKASHA
expanded to 13 full-time members, each awesome in their own way. To name a few
of the new team members:

**Andrei** is a long-time supporter of decentralization and privacy, having
worked at W3C and MIT looking to make a difference in the world. Among other
things, he co-authored WebID and previously worked with Sir Tim Berners Lee on
Solid. He is also known to occasionally appreciate a glass of single malt, no
rocks.

**Ânderson** is a digital nomad from Brazil, extreme sports aficionado, and a
social collaboration and free culture enthusiast. He has twenty years of
experience in helping distributed teams to streamline their processes and he
believes that distributed systems will help us to raise as a global society.

**Belen** is an artist at heart researching the philosophy and aesthetics of
digital technologies. She co-founded Laboratorio
[Libertar.io](http://Libertar.io), an educational organization in Barcelona,
where she taught and organized events on creative coding and critical
thinking. She is using her experience now to establish the Barcelona Hub as a
hive of cool activities and events.

**Martin** is the biochemist in our team. With 12 years of academic biomedical
research experience, he joined the team because he believes that new value
transactions through the blockchain could transform local knowledge creation.
He now leads our efforts to structure groundbreaking research projects and
collaborations at global scale.

**Philip** is an engineer with expertise spanning process engineering, digital
innovation, self-sovereign technologies, and org design. He architected [the
hi:project](https://hi-project.org), endorsed by the Web Science Trust, and
co-founded the Digital Life Collective. He was relatively early to Open Data
by 'liberating' UK flood data back in 2007, an event that attracted discussion
in the UK Parliament and the unhelpful attention of the UK Environment
Agency's lawyers.

This is just a brief intro. You can expect an introductory post from everyone
in the team with more details. Also, we will continue to expand our team in
2019 so if you are interested in joining us in this odyssey of discovery
please check [our openings](https://akasha.org/careers)! We'd love to hear
from you!

### Retreating into the Future

[ ![The Mountain
Within](/static/600ef32d07460e02a0921c6cbdd83a10/1c72d/retreat-mountain.jpg)
](/static/600ef32d07460e02a0921c6cbdd83a10/c58a3/retreat-mountain.jpg)

> Teamwork is the best kind of work, really. — Sigrid

It’s worth mentioning that we have recently started operating in a fully
remote work configuration, with a declared intention to research and
experiment with a new organizing framework. More on this in future posts.

That being said, we acknowledge that besides being “online”, both physical
spaces and team retreats where people can meet in person and hang out together
"offline" are **very** important.

On this note, a special thank you for the fantastic retreat organized by
Roxana — everyone echoed the wish for “one more day together” which makes it
crystal clear just how fun and productive it was to spend the time together in
the magical Swiss Alps.

[ ![Brainstorming](/static/16698ec2b176250ee3718aec5b8aead8/1c72d/team-
brainstorming.jpg) ](/static/16698ec2b176250ee3718aec5b8aead8/eea4a/team-
brainstorming.jpg)

It was our first retreat, and it was epic. Truly epic.

[ ![The Mountains](/static/3541f5cddde0999087a95c9e47defc4c/1c72d/mountains-
panorama.jpg) ](/static/3541f5cddde0999087a95c9e47defc4c/3acf0/mountains-
panorama.jpg)

Sometimes in order to leap forward you need to take a few steps back. The
intellectual challenges we tackled at the retreat were mainly split on three
layers: philosophical, organizational, and technological.

This post is already (very) long so I will not go into too much detail on the
first two. I will focus more on the technological aspect, with the other two
each deserving future attention here on our blog.

One of the ideas we explored stood out high from the crowd, now known as the
Hyperdata Project. In a nutshell this idea leverages the usefulness of linking
data across various platforms and silos.

In the context of our dapp to date, this approach shifts the perception from
“building a social network” to a more expansive view that regards our innate
social nature as something transcending any particular platform or data silo,
including AKASHA.

Similarly to how you do not care about the cell provider your friend(s) use
when you call them, you should be able to communicate online within **_your_**
social graph regardless of what platform your friends are using.

### Connecting the Dots: from Hypertext to Hyperdata

[ ![Connecting The
Dots](/static/b48773060965f0e570265d6bc62b8929/1c72d/connecting-the-dot.jpg)
](/static/b48773060965f0e570265d6bc62b8929/2f65b/connecting-the-dot.jpg)

> From now on, I'll connect the dots my own way. — Bill Watterson

According to Wikipedia, [Hyperdata](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyperdata)
are **data objects linked to other data objects in other places, as hypertext
indicates text linked to other text in other places.** Hyperdata also
**enables the formation of a web of data, evolving from the "data on the Web"
that is not inter-related (or at least, not linked).**

When talking about links and linking, a hypertext link simply indicates that a
link exists between two documents or "information resources". **Hyperdata
links go beyond simply such a connection, and express semantics about the kind
of connection being made.**

After discussing a few potential use-cases we agreed that one of the best ways
to test this new idea is within the AKASHA dapp, in a staged approach. To
explain the differences between the old and new approach I will attempt to
highlight the way comments currently work on AKASHA and how they will work
after the first stage is implemented.

#### Before the Hyperdata Project

In the old paradigm, every comment is a transaction with one of the parameters
at publishing being the nature of the comment, clarifying if it is a new
comment or a reply to an existent comment.

In other words, the comments represent linked events within a smart contract
deployed on Ethereum. In the background, when you are loading the comments of
an AKASHA post, they are reorganized locally starting from data available in
the smart contract which serves as a sort of index.

This approach comes with a few challenges such as costs to publish (although
small at ~5000-6000 gas), and the time required for the transaction to be
mined. Moreover, the complexity increases with the number of blocks mined
which is why sometimes it takes so long to load the comments of older posts.

This approach also has its good parts in the form of persistency “because
blockchain”, but when looking at the bigger picture we feel that the drawbacks
outweighs the advantages in this particular use case.

#### After the Hyperdata Project

Similarly to the [IPLD dag-cbor](https://github.com/ipld/js-ipld-dag-cbor),
this initiative builds on the idea of a storage agnostic data model and schema
for linking data across different domains and platforms. For example, this
means that a piece of data hosted on Web 2.0 could link to another one hosted
on [IPFS](https://ipfs.io/), which in turn could potentially link to data
hosted even on your local file system.

With that in mind, in the new paradigm we have the following highlights:

  * **Speed** — the comments are published instantly, no need to wait for a blockchain transaction to be confirmed. Also since we don't have to iterate the blocks for the comments list, the process is _a lot_ faster.

  * **Better scalability** — since comments do not involve a transaction we avoid the classic bottlenecks associated with blockchains.

  * **No costs to comment** — the classic crypto chicken-and-egg requiring the users to have cryptocurrency in order to be able to interact is removed.

  * **Increased flexibility** — the actual content of the comment can exist beyond a particular blockchain, platform or specific location.

  * **Possibility for private discussions** — it could be argued that ZK-snarks can be used in the on-chain approach as well, but the costs are very high which makes it less appealing for this particular use case.

  * **Smoother upgrades** — the model / structure can be changed without losing access / compatibility to the previous version(s). Sure, you can redeploy smart contracts in the previous approach as well but things are way more complicated.

When compared to the previous approach, we trade the “rock-solid” persistency
associated with blockchains but we gain many other things in the process. The
next posts will go into more detail as we learn more about the pros and cons
of this approach.

We are operating in uncharted waters here, with no clear understanding of what
works and what doesn’t. It will probably take a bit of time and more than one
experiment to fully grasp its implications but that’s part of the fun!

And the best part of all this?

**In order to join the fun, you just have to post a comment in AKASHA starting
with the next release. By doing that we’ll already learn something together,
and who knows maybe fix a bug or two in the process :)**

How cool is that? :D

### In Conclusion

[ ![A-HA!](/static/6458195de5e1911f2905072ef6d55150/1c72d/knowledge-
stairs.jpg) ](/static/6458195de5e1911f2905072ef6d55150/3acf0/knowledge-
stairs.jpg)

> There is nothing in a caterpillar that tells you it's going to be a
> butterfly. — R. Buckminster Fuller

We started hacking on the AKASHA application about 3 years ago thinking that
we’re building a “social network dapp”. We now find ourselves still feeling
like we’re scratching the surface just to understand that we’re actually
building an “ecosystem” taking the shape of a “social network of networks.”

This journey was frustrating at times because we wanted to “just BUIDL” but
looking back, we believe that taking a moment to reflect was the right thing
to do. Looking forward I believe we’ll view the second half of 2018 as “the
calm before the storm”.

On this note, **we 're excited to kick-off 2019 with a brand new website at
[AKASHA.org](https://akasha.org) assembled around a renewed purpose:**

> **We nurture projects helping individuals unlock their potential through
> open systems that expand our collective minds at local, regional and global
> scales.**

If this sounds interesting to you, head on over to the [new
website](https://akasha.org) to learn more!

This year will be marked by a transformation of what
“[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)” means as an initiative, seen now as
part of a bigger constellation of projects developed under the AKASHA
Foundation umbrella.

The [AKASHA.org website](https://akasha.org) will gradually expand to include
more information about the projects we are researching and developing, so stay
tuned! We have some very interesting ideas and projects lined up ;)

If the first versions of the [alpha](https://akasha.org/blog/2017/01/16/into-
the-ether) and [beta](https://akasha.org/blog/2018/02/10/akasha-beta-
emergence) dapps could be seen as the caterpillar stage of AKASHA, the quiet
period marking the second half of 2018 would be the
[chrysalis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pupa#Chrysalis) stage.

During the chrysalis, our shared understanding of what we can build has
evolved and benefits now from deeper layers of thinking which are going to be
critical in the next phase. And, after this long chrysalis, the butterfly is
ready to emerge.

In nature, when the butterfly emerges from its chrysalis, its wings are small
and wet, and the butterfly cannot yet fly. This is where we are at the moment
with AKASHA — not ready to fly but quite a different creature altogether.

Before being able to fly, the butterfly must pump fluids from its abdomen
through the veins in its wings, which causes the wings to expand to their full
size. This is where we are headed, figuring in the process also the full
extent of our wings.

Looking forward to this year and what this new phase will bring!

[ ![A New Chapter
Begins](/static/502e91eeb55ebfbdfb038cca19cee624/1c72d/grouppluschefs.jpg)
](/static/502e91eeb55ebfbdfb038cca19cee624/0fab0/grouppluschefs.jpg)

Thank you for being part of this adventure! \o/\o/\o/

* * *

_End of Part I_

[News](/blog/category/news/)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2019/01/15/akasha-2019-metamorphosis-
part1)

