[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) Â·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![AKASHA joins the World Wide Web
Consortium](/static/584898f0eb51a64969debe70063df97b/2a43b/hero.jpg)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

[Research](/blog/category/research/)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

## AKASHA joins the World Wide Web Consortium

By [Andrei Sambra](/blog/author/andrei-sambra/)

Â·

April 16, 2019

We are very excited to announce that starting April 1st, AKASHA has officially
joined the [World Wide Web Consortium](https://www.w3.org)! ðŸ™Œ

While W3C is mostly about the Web, a lot of the work that takes place here is
about more than just the Web. You'll notice that within this [comprehensive
list](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/activities#wgs) of all the current Working
Groups, there are some that are dedicated to security, privacy, accessibility,
and even education. If you think about it, not a day goes by without us
interacting in some way with the Web, or at least with a browser.

#### What is World Wide Web Consortium?

There are many reasons why standards are important when creating new
technology. Historically, Web standards were introduced to protect the Web
ecosystem, to keep it open, free and accessible to all. Putting the Web in a
protective bubble and disbanding with the idea of having to build websites to
suit specific browsers. The resultant cross-compatibility (interoperability)
made things a lot easier for content makers, avoiding their having to build
multiple versions of the same website. Please remember that the main reason we
have an open Web today is primarily due to W3C's [patent
policy](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/Patent-Policy-20170801/) that makes sure
W3C Recommendations can be implemented on a Royalty-Free (RF) basis. Without
it, the Web would be a **completely different** place today.

Standards are also important because they ease the path of adoption by
developers, by reducing development and maintenance time. Software built on
standards is often used in many projects, while at the same time being more
robust, since developers from different companies often contribute to one
codebase (catching bugs, adding tests, etc.). On the same note, we are
guaranteed to always have better standards when different companies and
individuals ([W3C Invited Experts](https://www.w3.org/participate/invited-
experts/)) pool their resources together, bringing to the table different use
cases coming from all sorts of backgrounds, instead of a single company
working on it.

The reason why the AKASHA Foundation joined the W3C is to participate in two
Working Groups, the [Verifiable Claims WG](https://www.w3.org/2017/vc/WG/),
and an upcoming Decentralized Identifiers WG, which is currently incubated by
the [Credentials Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/).
Let's take a closer look at what each of these groups are producing.

### Verifiable Claims

Entities (people, organizations, devices) need to make many kinds of claims as
part of their everyday activities. As more and more of these important
activities move to the Internet, entities need to be able to transmit
instantly verifiable claims (e.g. about their location, accomplishments,
value, etc). From educational records to payment-account access, the next
generation of Web applications will authorize entities to perform actions
based on rich sets of credentials issued by trusted parties. Human- and
machine-mediated decisions about job applications, account access,
collaboration, and professional development will depend on filtering and
analyzing growing amounts of data. It is essential that data be verifiable.

A verifiable credential can represent all of the same information that a
physical credential represents. The addition of technologies, such as digital
signatures, makes verifiable credentials more tamper-evident and more
trustworthy than their physical counterparts. Holders of verifiable
credentials can generate presentations and then share these presentations with
verifiers to prove they possess verifiable credentials with certain
characteristics.

[ ![vc](/static/7c851ff23071a7b6300766b74d0e91ce/fcda8/vc.png)
](/static/7c851ff23071a7b6300766b74d0e91ce/af975/vc.png)

It is also possible for claims to be issued by individuals in order to self-
certify certain pieces of data, in a way that makes the **claim issuer** and
the **claim holder** the same entity. For example, the [AKASHA
dapp](https://beta.akasha.world/) could use claims to allow authors to prove
ownership of posts and comments.

What is interesting is that Verifiable Claims make use of _Decentralized
Identifiers_ (DIDs) when mentioning different entities as well as signature
keys.

If you would like to know more about how Verifiable Claims work, please take a
look at the [Proposed Recommendation
document](https://www.w3.org/TR/verifiable-claims-data-model/), which is in
the last stage before officially becoming a W3C Recommendation.

### Decentralized Identifiers

Todayâ€™s Internet places control of online identities into the hands of third-
parties. Email addresses, usernames, and website domains are borrowed or
"rented" through DNS, X.509 certificates (TLS), and social networks. This
results in severe usability and security challenges Internet-wide, both for
regular users as well as service providers.

[Decentralized Identifiers](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/did-spec/) (DIDs) are a
new type of identifier for verifiable, "self-sovereign" digital identity. DIDs
are fully under the control of the DID subject, independent from any
centralized registry, identity provider, or certificate authority. DIDs
resolve to DID Documents â€” simple documents that describe how to use that
specific DID.

In other words, DIDs offer a new way to express identifiers that are not bound
exclusively to the Web and centralized service providers, yet they remain
compatible with many general-purpose Web technologies. They are also not
limited to a single use case or protocol, since a Decentralized Identifier is
nothing more than a generic [Uniform Resource
Identifier](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Identifier) (URI)
-- for example `did:example:123456789abcdefghi` \-- which is unique at the
scale of the Internet, and that points to a document containing several
attributes defining a person, an object, or organization. Please note that it
is up to each individual to decide how much information they want to expose in
a DID document, by adding or omitting certain attributes from the document.

The following is a basic example of a self-managed DID Document.

    
    
    {
      "@context": "https://w3id.org/did/v1",
      "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
      "authentication": [{
        // this key can be used to authenticate as did:...fghi
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1",
        "type": "RsaVerificationKey2018",
        "controller": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
        "publicKeyPem": "-----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY...END PUBLIC KEY-----\r\n"
      }],
      "service": [{
        "type": "ExampleService",
        "serviceEndpoint": "https://example.com/endpoint/8377464"
      }]
    }

The emergence of blockchain technology provides the opportunity to implement
fully-decentralized identity management (DIDM). In DIDM, all identity owners
share a common root of trust in the form of a globally-distributed ledger.
Each DID record is cryptographically secured by private keys under the
identity ownerâ€™s control. One of the many benefits it offers is that DIDs are
designed to work with different blockchains and other target systems,
therefore providing interoperability.

[DIDs can also be used for
authentication](https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rwot6-santabarbara/blob/master/final-
documents/did-auth.md), where similarly to other authentication methods, DID
Auth includes the ability to establish mutually-authenticated communication
channels and to authenticate to Web sites and applications. During this cycle,
an identity owner demonstrates control of their authentication material that
was generated and distributed during DID Record Creation through execution of
the authentication-proof mechanism. Even though DID Auth is about proving
control of a DID, the exchange of Verifiable Credentials associated with a DID
is paramount to making DID Auth work, hence the overlap between the two
Working Groups.

For regular users, it means that you would typically have a digital wallet
that stores your DIDs and associated keys, and you could use a browser plugin
or app that pops up and asks for confirmation when you are logging in. The
idea is a bit comparable to the [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/) plugin, but
less complicated.

### How does it all fit with AKASHA's mission?

Whether it is the [AKASHA dapp](https://beta.akasha.world/) or another project
developed under the AKASHA Foundation umbrella, we believe both Working Groups
have the potential to further advance self-sovereign technology. Both
Verifiable Claims and DIDs are key components that will see reuse throughout
numerous use cases, pretty much anything that touches on identity and
authentication, to proof of ownership and authorship. Participating in the
standards making process keeps the scope of this work very generic, enabling
AKASHA to avoid getting tunnel vision when looking for technical solutions in
these areas.

More concrete (and short-term), we would like the users of [our
dapp](https://beta.akasha.world/) to be able to reuse their self-sovereign
identities (DIDs), whichever identity provider they might be using. This
brings numerous advantages, for both users and ourselves as AKASHA, since it
means that we will no longer have to maintain user profiles ourselves, as well
as all the features and complexity that come with it. Combining Verifiable
Claims and DIDs (and perhaps also using
[Hyperdata](https://akasha.org/blog/2019/03/04/bridging-networks-with-
hyperdata/)), we could potentially enable users to manage content
independently of our infrastructure, in a truly decentralized way. We're
barely scratching the surface in terms of useful functionality we can add to
our platform.

As always, we welcome comments / feedback on our [Discord
server](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)!

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

[Research](/blog/category/research/)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 â€” Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 â€” Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adoptâ€¦

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

MarÃ­a SanmartÃ­n and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX andâ€¦

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 â€” Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 â€” Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralizedâ€¦

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) Â·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2019/04/16/akasha-
joins-w3c)

