[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![AKASHA launch
imminent](/static/6e996895842aea491a0534de14d9890f/2a43b/Dragonv2.jpg)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

## AKASHA launch imminent

By [Mihai Alisie](/blog/author/mihai-alisie/)

·

September 30, 2016

Hello everyone, I bring good news: **the pre-alpha version
of[AKASHA](https://beta.akasha.world/) will be launched in October!**

When the time comes, the invites will be delivered to your inbox and will
include installation details which should make the entire setup process a
breeze. However, if you encounter any problems, feel free to [join our
Discord](https://discord.com/invite/JqqKasJ) \- we are friendly people :)

During the first rollout, we plan to test the basic core features such as
creating an identity, following a person, publishing an entry, commenting,
bookmarking, voting, following a tag, creating a tag and so on.

Depending on our findings in the next few weeks we will test the rest of the
functionality in anticipation of the public alpha release.

One step at a time.

You can find bellow an overview of the direction we are foreseeing in the near
future as a _tentative_ , high-level, loosey-goosey roadmap for the main
network launch, with the mention that things will most likely evolve depending
on our findings.

### This is a marathon, not a sprint

[ ![Stargate
Blueprint](/static/036dda924816d5a270d43a96a7404ffd/1c72d/stargate-
blueprint.jpg) ](/static/036dda924816d5a270d43a96a7404ffd/f56c3/stargate-
blueprint.jpg)

**Stage 0 (October 2016)**

_Invitations gradually sent to ~4500 users_

Invitation based access for the early [alpha
subscribers](https://beta.akasha.world/) using an Ethereum test chain.

Main goals

  * Test the dapp on the major operating systems
  * Observe the smart contracts and dapp components interaction
  * Identify potential flaws in the system design
  * Fix major bugs & issues uncovered before the public alpha

**Stage 1 (Q4 2016)**

_Public alpha release_

Debut with brainstorming challenge for ideas and features in the next
releases.

Main goals

  * Signal that AKASHA is a community-driven project
  * Tap into the collective intelligence of the community
  * Collect and incorporate feedback from the users
  * Token economy challenge launched for proposals that would creatively reward participants on AKASHA

**Stage 2 (TBD)**

_Core smart contracts breakathon_

Open source the smart contracts powering AKASHA, followed by breakathon event
with prizes for anyone able to exploit or break the smart contracts.
Breakathon will be extended to the token contracts proposed in the next stage.
Actively experiment with solutions for displaying content published inside the
dapp in normal Web 2.0 browsers.

Main goals

  * Smart contracts crowdsourced vulnerability/exploit tests
  * Fix/improve the smart contracts depending on the feedback
  * Round 2: try to break the fixed/improved smart contracts
  * R&D for Web 2.0 static content gateways

**Stage 3 (TBD)**

_Tokens, tests & integration experiments_

Token research taking a more proeminent role (Filecoin, Raiden, BTC relay, ETH
appcoins interoperability) combined with identity and experiments on an
interactive Web 2.0 version (Metamask/Light Wallets/uPort). Analyze and A/B
test the most interesting token proposals to see how it affects the health of
the ecosystem and behaviour of users.

Main goals

  * Understand what problems we should strive to solve with a token
  * Test the most interesting ideas bubbling from the collective intelligence of the community
  * Learn if a token is indeed needed and beneficial in the ecosystem
  * R&D for Web 2.0 interactive version

**Stage 4 (TBD)**

_Development roadmap proposal_

Propose development roadmap for 2017 with votes counting as feedback on
feature prioritization.

Main goals

  * Community-driven development roadmap proposal
  * Focus attention and resources on most wanted features
  * Testing Web 2.0 interactive version
  * Fine tuning for main network launch

**Stage 5 (TBD)**

_AKASHA v 1.0_

Many variables in the equation as it all depends on the findings and lessons
learned during the previous stages. If everything goes according to plan, the
AKASHA contracts will be deployed on the main net, hopefully with a working
Web 2.0 version for ease of access for people not interested in running their
own ETH and IPFS node.

Main goals

  * Using the security and synergy of the ethereum main network ecosystem
  * Enabling "real value" token transfers between readers and content creators
  * Web 2.0 main net version deployed, preferably interactive
  * Publish experiment-driven white paper documenting our findings
  * Open the dapp to the world at large

Again, this short roadmap is _tentative_ and should be taken as such. We want
to involve the community as much as possible in this project and we are open
to adjusting the various stages listed above (and not only) to accomodate
unforeseen events or strong feedback in areas that are not covered yet.

**More details will follow in the next couple of weeks once we start sending
the invites!**

### Closing notes

In the first release(s) the dapp might showcase unstable behavior and
occasional bugs. This is the tradeoff for being among the first people to
experiment a standalone dapp bundling bleeding edge technologies such as
Ethereum and IPFS - there is no way around it since both are still in their
very early days.

There are many moving parts involved in making this happen and there will be
things that are expected to manifest unexpected behaviour. When something like
this happens, please take a deep breath and remember that we want to iron out
these bugs as much as you do.

Help us to help you by opening an issue or by [getting in touch with us on
Discord!](https://discord.com/invite/JqqKasJ).

Thank you for your patience and understanding!

See you soon. On AKASHA!

[ ![Hello mum](/static/028384a909ba585eb26283accc7d4faf/1c72d/moon-hello-
mum.jpg) ](/static/028384a909ba585eb26283accc7d4faf/a2510/moon-hello-mum.jpg)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2016/09/30/launch-
imminent)

