[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/a23db0504cc5&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Borderless Capital \(former Algo
Capital\)](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*NAhRTY9nB4Izh9NuAwjmag.jpeg)](https://medium.com/algo-
capital?source=post_page-----a23db0504cc5--------------------------------)

Published in

[Borderless Capital (former Algo Capital)

](https://medium.com/algo-capital?source=post_page-----
a23db0504cc5--------------------------------)

[![Borderless
Capital](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/2*8KIOXE8g8bE5g2A_h3sWaA.jpeg)](/@borderlesscapital?source=post_page
-----a23db0504cc5--------------------------------)

[Borderless Capital](/@borderlesscapital?source=post_page-----
a23db0504cc5--------------------------------)

Follow

Oct 25, 2019

·

6 min read

#  **Algo Capital’s approach to holding Algos**

 **History:**

David Garcia and Arul Murugan have together invested in multiple blockchain
projects since the beginning of 2018. Algorand is one of those projects and
they are one of the largest investors and Early Backers of Algorand, having
invested a total of $8 million in Algorand’s Series A through their previous
entities (Algorand DG Group, Eleven Eleven Investments, Algo Node I), before
founding Algo Capital Funds. As Early Backers, they run and manage 9 Algorand
relay nodes.

With the vision to drive adoption, create the needed network effect in the
Algorand ecosystem, and ultimately drive value to their original Algorand
investment, Arul and David decided to start [Algo
Capital](https://algo.capital/) — a financial institution focused on building
modern financial products to power Algorand’s borderless economy. The goal of
Algo Capital is to accelerate the access, adoption, and liquidity of the Algo,
the native digital currency of the Algorand blockchain. Note that Algo Capital
is a completely separate entity from Algorand Inc. and Algorand Foundation.
Algo Capital is founded and managed by David and Arul. As Managing Partners,
David and Arul make all investment decisions and manage the investment
portfolio.

Algo Capital right now manages two funds: Algo Capital VC fund (close-ended
fund) and Algo Tracker fund (open-ended fund). Please read the below Medium
post to learn more about the role of Algo Capital, investment thesis and the
details about both of its funds: [https://medium.com/algo-capital/the-role-of-
algo-capital-b96b945da9dd](/algo-capital/the-role-of-algo-
capital-b96b945da9dd).

This blog post will describe our approach to holding Algo and managing Algo
liquidity from the Algo Capital VC fund for investing in portfolio companies.

 **Algo Capital VC Fund (Algo Capital Master Fund LP):**

The Algo Capital VC fund is the flagship product that invests in companies
leveraging Algorand technology to accelerate the adoption and create long-term
value for Algo. Many of the existing Algorand investors backed this vision and
are Limited Partners (Investors) in this fund. As General Partners of Algo
Capital, David (DG Ventures) and Arul (Eleven Eleven Investments) invested a
significant portion of their Algo rewards from the relay nodes they run in
this fund. As a matter of fact, the General Partners of Algo Capital is the
second-largest investor in the fund.

 **Liquidity of Algo’s and Investments into Portfolio Companies**

 **How we get funded:**

All commitments to the Algo Capital VC Fund were accepted in Algos rather than
U.S. dollars and the Algo is the primary currency for all capital calls. We
have done this with the goal of accelerating the use and acceptance of the
Algo as a means of payment and also enabling the existing Algorand investors
to contribute a portion of Algos earned from their relay nodes back to the
growth of the ecosystem. To date, Algo Capital has received about 111,867,820
Algos from our Limited Partners. The remaining Algos committed from Limited
Partners in the Algo Capital VC Fund will be contributed to the Fund through
monthly capital calls, over an investment period that covers the next 2 to 5
years.

 **Our Algo**[ **HODL**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hodl) **Strategy:**

Algo Capital believes in creating long-term value for Algo through adoption.
As part of its strategy, Algo Capital kept the initial 100M Algos it received
from the Limited Partners as a unique asset to the fund and HODL for the next
few years. This 100M Algos will be online, participate in securing the
Algorand network and earn participation rewards. Holding 100M Algos as a
unique asset of the fund is part of our investment thesis in the underlying
Algorand blockchain itself. The remaining Algos will be used to invest in
infrastructure and application layers built leveraging Algorand technology
over the investment period of 2 to 5 years.

 **Note:** Arul and David are long-term supporters of Algo and the Algorand
network. They are HODLING most the Algos they earned except for those Algos
contributed to the Algo Capital VC fund and any distribution for tax
withholdings.

 **How we invest:**

Besides our large holdings of Algo, we are also looking to invest in companies
at different stages that are leveraging Algorand technology and/or
participating in Algorand’s borderless economy. When we make investments into
our portfolio companies, we invest about 90% of the capital in USD and about
10% in Algo, which allows portfolio companies to make use of the Algo within
the Algorand network.

 **How we get liquidity to invest in portfolio companies:**

Algo Capital needs significant capital in USD currency since we invest about
90% of the capital in USD into the portfolio companies. To prevent any selling
pressure on the Algo during the early stages of Algorand’s network launch,
Algo Capital chose not to sell its Algos from the Algo Capital VC Fund, and
instead took a USD loan using Algos as collateral. That loan agreement,
brokered through a partnership with [Genesis Capital](https://genesiscap.co/),
provided the capital needed to invest in the initial portfolio companies. To
date, Algo Capital has borrowed only 50% of the total USD loan amount. For
future investments, Algo Capital will seek additional loans from its existing
agreement with Genesis or sell a portion of the Algos received from the new
capital calls. In any case, Algo Capital is not looking to sell the initial
100M Algos it is holding as a unique asset.

 **Statement on our Algo holdings:**

As we stated above, the Algo Capital VC fund has not sold its Algos and is
holding almost all the Algos received from the capital call safely in cold
storage with Coinbase Custody. The below link provides the statement of Algo
Capital VC Fund and Algo Tracker Fund Algos balance from Coinbase Custody and
also attestation from our fund administrator, Trident Trust.

# of Algos held in the Algo Capital VC fund and the Algo Tracker Fund:

  * Coinbase Custody Audit Confirmation Letter:  
<https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B0-scCxnfThWSS1ubTZUb2xIdzBDT2Ixb25HODA3bkIya3hZ/>

  * Trident Trust Attestation Letter of total Algos held by Algo Capital VC Fund and Algo Tracker Fund:   
<https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B0-scCxnfThWNzFhVUkwSHU0MWVSc1BmY2FzLWRBY3Foa1Nv>

**Note:** We are declaring that we are holding 100% of the Algos we bought in
the Algorand Foundation auction of June 2019 through the Algo Tracker Fund as
well. We have not opted to collect early refund offered by Algorand
Foundation, rather deciding to hold and devote 100% of the Algos in the
Tracker Fund toward the super staking program.

 **Conclusion:**

Even though Algo Capital is a private fund, we felt it was important to
publicly disclose our Algo holdings and clarify how we secure USD liquidity to
support our portfolio investments. We’re doing this for several reasons:

  1. Algo Capital is one of the largest holders of Algo, and we believe it is important to be clear how we are using those Algos and why we are committed to a HODL strategy
  2. We are committed to the values of transparency and openness that are the foundations of the overall Algorand community

Overall, Algo Capital is committed to holding our initial 100M Algos over the
long term and, at the same time, we are very committed to investing in
category-leading companies that are building on Algorand and driving adoption
in the network. We strongly believe this strategy will create a significant
network effect and ultimately bring more value to the Algo, our portfolio
companies and the overall Algorand ecosystem.

It’s important to our General Partners that Algo Capital is a collaborative
and positive contributor to the Algorand community. We see exciting work being
done in this space every day, and we want to ensure that we are proactively
transparent about what we’re doing to grow the community, and consistently
supportive of the top projects who are driving Algorand’s network to new
heights.

 **David Garcia & Arul Murugan  
**Founders and Managing Partners  
Algo Capital GP LLC

 ** _Disclaimer:_** _Algo Capital is not related to or affiliated with
Algorand Inc, Algorand LLC, Algorand Foundation, or any of their subsidiaries.
The views, opinions, and communications of Algo Capital are generated
independently by the General Partners of Algo Capital, and are not endorsed or
approved in any way by Algorand Inc, Algorand LLC, Algorand Foundation, or any
of their subsidiaries or affiliates_

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Borderless Capital (former Algo Capital)](/algo-
capital?source=post_page-----a23db0504cc5--------------------------------)

Borderless Capital is a modern financial institution investing capital and
building financial products that accelerate access, bootstrap adoption and
creates value globally through the Algorand Borderless Economy

[Read more from Borderless Capital (former Algo Capital)](/algo-
capital?source=post_page-----a23db0504cc5--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Bitcoin
Support](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*UQ5KcTYk3yWq2KRK9BE48Q.png)](/@bitcoinguidance?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Bitcoin Support

](/@bitcoinguidance?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Biden’s executive order on cryptocurrency was leaked by Janet Yellen

![Biden's executive order on cryptocurrency was leaked by Janet
Yellen](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*9wCIk57M3xDliDSv.jpg)](/coinmonks/bidens-
executive-order-on-cryptocurrency-was-leaked-by-janet-
yellen-c0ef8d9dd105?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![David A.
Johnston](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*nWRKmFhOpo1LOm1HxJfsrg.jpeg)](/@djohnstonec?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[David A. Johnston

](/@djohnstonec?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

in

[Crypto Valley Startups

](https://medium.com/crypto-valley-startups?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

## Time To Move To Crypto Valley

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*5mPXNKnX4DHV5PKTok_Slw.jpeg)](/crypto-
valley-startups/time-to-move-to-crypto-
valley-c1a1cd42a57c?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Jonathan Jono
Liang](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*C9pCnZrAcDoAGl1zz0FzcQ.jpeg)](/@jonaliang?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Jonathan Jono Liang

](/@jonaliang?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Xfers: The Road to Crypto Adoption

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*4JVXj02j3lRz4d6j)](/@jonaliang/xfers-
the-road-to-crypto-adoption-942157c71834?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![BLOC.money](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*8cmEbld5sexwEITAZyGdeA.png)](/@bloc.money?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[BLOC.money

](/@bloc.money?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## BLOC GUI Miner now support RandomX, macOS Catalina and more

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*YqgWKJoSv9GK-
BSQ9QLfKQ.png)](/@bloc.money/bloc-gui-miner-now-support-randomx-macos-
catalina-and-more-9fa7a2ef2e45?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Anthony
Sassano](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*jdMf10Tdlr17rBVVQVyUbg.png)](/@AnthonySassano?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Anthony Sassano

](/@AnthonySassano?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

in

[Block by Block

](https://medium.com/block-by-block-blog?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Block by Block Weekly Newsletter #37

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*qi9v07FV_l608AxBMHmFrw.png)](/block-
by-block-blog/block-by-block-weekly-
newsletter-37-6f715ae39eb6?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![FundsFi](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*8g8AlZZlAoa2zihfpNI_Pw.png)](/@fundsfi?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[FundsFi

](/@fundsfi?source=post_internal_links---------5----------------------------)

## A Brand New Project on Harmony that funds P2E games OneUSD.

![FundsFi
Logo](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*8g8AlZZlAoa2zihfpNI_Pw.png)](/@fundsfi/oneusd-57e6f24add69?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[[![Hodl
Model](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*NEdVTB1n-lvG0z7wrNDa4A.jpeg)](/@hodlmodel?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Hodl Model

](/@hodlmodel?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## How Profitable Are ICOs to Investors?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*gNzNwBYA43ptOyTsvcrNYw.jpeg)](/@hodlmodel/how-
profitable-are-icos-to-investors-ed202d6f388f?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[[![nmesis](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*hYymSWW6CmhhR_G4k55Sgw.jpeg)](/@nmesis?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[nmesis

](/@nmesis?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

## Bug Testing Beaxy Exchange — My Thoughts.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*VeFKptdBgDujVUrVdsLpvg.png)](/@nmesis/bug-
testing-beaxy-exchange-my-thoughts-4247623b7ce7?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----a23db0504cc5--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
a23db0504cc5--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
a23db0504cc5--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
a23db0504cc5--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
a23db0504cc5--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----a23db0504cc5--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----a23db0504cc5--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Falgo-
capital%2Falgo-capitals-approach-to-holding-
algos-a23db0504cc5&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Borderless
Capital](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/2*8KIOXE8g8bE5g2A_h3sWaA.jpeg)](/@borderlesscapital)

[

## Borderless Capital

](/@borderlesscapital)

102 Followers

Borderless Capital is a financial institution focused exclusively on powering
Algorand’s borderless economy.

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F1c33ae759495&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Falgo-
capital%2Falgo-capitals-approach-to-holding-
algos-a23db0504cc5&newsletterV3=554e3c0c6258&newsletterV3Id=1c33ae759495&user=Borderless+Capital&userId=554e3c0c6258&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Lack of
Lepers](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*9wQjyJYK0pOGts9NtzYC3w.jpeg)](/@lackoflepers?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------0b554516_25d1_4c6a_a350_cded1665374f-------)

[Lack of Lepers

](/@lackoflepers?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
0b554516_25d1_4c6a_a350_cded1665374f-------)

## Letter to the Editor: How We Were Duped Into Celebrating SCP-173’s Image
Removal

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*XfwqmdW_wPojev5kgm_EjQ.jpeg)](/@lackoflepers/letter-
to-the-editor-how-we-were-duped-into-celebrating-scp-173s-image-
removal-9061589093a1?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
0b554516_25d1_4c6a_a350_cded1665374f-------)

[[![【公式】ブレヒロ/【Official】BFH
DEV](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*_iw9XKRVHyYvWTYhgEYkgg.png)](/@bfh_dev?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------0b554516_25d1_4c6a_a350_cded1665374f-------)

[【公式】ブレヒロ/【Official】BFH DEV

](/@bfh_dev?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
0b554516_25d1_4c6a_a350_cded1665374f-------)

in

[bravefrontierheroes

](https://medium.com/bravefrontierheroes?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------0b554516_25d1_4c6a_a350_cded1665374f-------)

## Road map【2022】

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*2uAUqGQHCvDXr2pb3zhfcA.png)](/bravefrontierheroes/road-
map-2022-4d7fa0c34d9b?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
0b554516_25d1_4c6a_a350_cded1665374f-------)

[[![Coder
D.J](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*-O-ylgHOJJunIXE2ZndkdQ.png)](/@jakhardilip10?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------0b554516_25d1_4c6a_a350_cded1665374f-------)

[Coder D.J

](/@jakhardilip10?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
0b554516_25d1_4c6a_a350_cded1665374f-------)

## Count Negative Numbers in a Sorted Matrix.

](/@jakhardilip10/count-negative-numbers-in-a-sorted-
matrix-8ba8371089e5?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
0b554516_25d1_4c6a_a350_cded1665374f-------)

[[![Jeffquick](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*CANspM2MxUSVecI2)](/@jeffquick0418?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------0b554516_25d1_4c6a_a350_cded1665374f-------)

[Jeffquick

](/@jeffquick0418?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
0b554516_25d1_4c6a_a350_cded1665374f-------)

## Elie Wiesel’s experience throughout the Halocaust and review

](/@jeffquick0418/elie-wiesels-experience-throughout-the-halocaust-and-review-
deff33eda65b?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
0b554516_25d1_4c6a_a350_cded1665374f-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

