[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ¬∑

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![All Watched Over by Machines of Loving Grace: Surveillance in
2019](/static/be8a62383b5d319d9a731649464c634a/2a43b/camera-header.jpg)

[Community](/blog/category/community/)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

## All Watched Over by Machines of Loving Grace: Surveillance in 2019

By [Joshua Long](/blog/author/joshua-long/)

¬∑

August 16, 2019

Today, August 16th, is #SurveillanceDay, formerly called _Wave at Surveillance
Cameras Day._ This seemingly-quite-jokey annual occurrence, once [branded by
Motherboard as _the Laziest Protest
Ever_](https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/ezvbxn/international-wave-at-the-
surveillance-cameras-day-is-the-laziest-protest-ever), was possibly started by
pseudonymous privacy activist, Zorbitor, who we expect will, once again,
release a video on [their YouTube
Channel](https://www.youtube.com/user/Zorbitor), in spite of [their Twitter
suspension](https://twitter.com/Zorbitor). üö´

Whether you think that Surveillance Day is just a gimmick, or you intend to
spend the whole of this Friday locating and waving at the various cameras that
are likely surrounding you on your commute, dog walk, or daily shop, we
thought it would be a valuable contribution to discussions around this yearly
happening to look at some of the most recent "Orwellian" developments that
have cropped up in our newsfeeds. Yes, surveillance cameras are an integral
part of the slowly-growing, eyes-everywhere style reality that we live in, but
when talking about surveillance, it's important to remember that there are
many, many more ways in which public and private organizations alike keep tabs
on us. üë®üìπüëÄ

## Employee Monitoring üë©‚Äçüíºüñ•Ô∏èüë®‚Äçüíº

In March of 2018, the Economist ran [a story (apologies for the paywall)
entitled _There will be little privacy in the workplace of the
future_](https://www.economist.com/special-report/2018/03/28/there-will-be-
little-privacy-in-the-workplace-of-the-future) _._ This story featured a
company called [Humanyze](https://www.humanyze.com/), (definitely getting
points there for the disconnect between name and purpose) who provide
_science-backed analytics to improve business process, organizational health,
and workplace strategy._

What this really boils down to is [having employees wear a _sociometric
badge_](https://hd.media.mit.edu/badges/) which utilizes RFID, NFC, and
Bluetooth to process data about conversations between staff members in real
time. This data is then combined with digital communications data in order to
produce dashboards that managers can use to [get a _holistic view of what goes
on in the company_](https://www.sott.net/article/342687-Tracking-employees-
via-biometric-badges-is-a-growing-trend-in-the-enterprise). üò≤

Certain countries are less likely to permit of this kind of data collection,
especially when employees are not told about it; if this kind of monitoring
provides employers with large productivity benefits, who's to say there aren't
going to be changes to laws and regulations in the future? üîÆ

[ ![facial](/static/ec2afbe6e1fa1abed3aaa16ffcfa62c9/fcda8/facial.png)
](/static/ec2afbe6e1fa1abed3aaa16ffcfa62c9/21b4d/facial.png)

## **Facial Recognition** üë©üìÇüë®

Earlier in the year, a myriad of publications reported on [Taylor Swift's
usage of facial recognition technology at
concerts](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2019/feb/15/how-taylor-swift-
showed-us-the-scary-future-of-facial-recognition) in order to protect her
against stalkers. This kind of technology has been used by police and
militaries for years, with [the first trial in a public
space](https://www.wired.com/2010/01/0128tampa-super-bowl-facial-recognition/)
having taken place in 2001, at Super Bowl XXXV in Tampa Bay, Florida. The
important part of the Taylor Swift implementation is that it has coincided
with a whole host of other use cases for facial recognition that are expected
to turn into a $9.6bn market in the next two years according to [a 2015
report](https://www.alliedmarketresearch.com/facial-recognition-market) from
Allied Research.

The Philip K Dick-like future applications are easy enough to dream up, but
currently companies in the space are offering facial recognition technology as
a means to [provide direct advertising in baseball
stadiums](https://vstream.ie/how-coca-cola-uses-immersive-tech-for-their-
sport-sponsorships/), [allow festival/concert-goers to buy drinks with their
likeness](https://www.blinkidentity.com/solutions), and [getting to know
customers better through store-based solutions](https://dreamztech.com/facial-
recognition-solution/). With companies like [Live Nation and Ticketmaster
having invested in these
ventures](https://www.theticketingbusiness.com/2018/07/10/blink-identity-
secures-1-5m-seed-round/), it looks like face-based data collection will
become an inevitable fact of future event attendance, avoidable only through
[very non-standard methods](https://www.fastcompany.com/90375688/this-jewelry-
is-a-brilliant-shield-against-face-recognition-intrusions).

## **Personal Assistants** üìãüí•

The seemingly unstoppable proliferation of surveillance interfaces, like Alexa
and Google Assistant, has continued this year. An early-2019 forecast from the
UK-based analysts at [Juniper Research](https://www.juniperresearch.com/home)
reported that [the global market for this kind of technology was expected to
reach 8 billion units in use by
2023](https://www.juniperresearch.com/press/press-releases/digital-voice-
assistants-in-use-to-triple) with the bulk of this growth coming from smart
TVs.

Earlier this year it was reported that [humans are employed to review the
recordings that are stored as a result of people using these
assistants](https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-47893082). The persistent
claim by the companies doing the reviewing is that [this practice serves to
improve the functionality of the home assistants
themselves](https://www.cnet.com/news/google-uses-humans-to-review-google-
assistant-queries-report-says/); even if this is true, sensitive recordings
which occur in a place as intimate as your home are high-value targets for
entities with malicious intent, and leaks such as [the one reported in Belgium
this July](https://www.forbes.com/sites/kevinmurnane/2019/07/14/these-are-the-
real-problems-revealed-by-the-belgian-leak-of-google-assistant-voice-
recordings/) show that we are unable to trust these companies when it comes to
keeping the resulting data safe...

[ ![social](/static/9b7c06a15e085b9c8cb680bb6a1c0632/fcda8/social.png)
](/static/9b7c06a15e085b9c8cb680bb6a1c0632/29114/social.png)

## **Social Media** üê¶üñ±Ô∏è

The march of the social media giants continues ever-onward, in spite of a
whole truckload of problematic actions through the years, ranging from the
wilfully harmful to [the downright
negligent](https://www.wired.com/story/facebook-passwords-plaintext-change-
yours/). These networks have been involved in [sharing data to advertising
partners without consent](https://www.alistdaily.com/lifestyle/social-media-
news-080519/), [not taking proper care over disguising their users' regular
haunts](https://www.wired.com/story/whos-in-town-map-instagram-location-
history/), and even [gathering information on people who don't use
them](https://www.ft.com/content/7fafec06-1ea2-11e9-b126-46fc3ad87c65).
Knowing you through the information that you put out there is kind of their
business model; the greater the pool of data built up about a person, the
easier it is to advertise to them, the greater the click revenue, the more
money raked in by large, faceless corporations.

As we have highlighted in [the LibreNotLibra
campaign](https://librenotlibra.info/), the most comprehensive of all
dystopian power moves came on June 18th, when Facebook Libra was formally
announced. The pushback to this has been immense, as the crypto community,
politicians, and organizations collectively joined the dots on a project that
could become the most effective Trojan horse for surveillance that has ever
existed.

_I like to think_

_(it has to be!)_

_of a cybernetic ecology_

_where we are free of our labors_

_and joined back to nature,_

_returned to our mammal_

_brothers and sisters,_

_and all watched over_

_by machines of loving grace._

_\-- Richard_ _Brautigan_

## What Do We Do? ü§îüí≠

Unfortunately, on the subject of employee monitoring and facial recognition,
there's not really much we can give you aside from doing your best to avoid
employment in a company that wants to string a tracker round your neck, and to
investigate any ticketed events you're considering properly before purchase.
For personal assistants, well... we'd advise you don't buy them if the tales
above scare you.

One thing we can offer is a chance to be part of a platform that is aiming to
ditch the baggage of the social media networks which have, time after time,
made headlines for their troublesome actions. If like us you've watched in
amazement at how large corporations have managed to monopolize the tools that
we use to communicate, organize, and live, why not join us in dreaming of a
better world?

[**Join us in this odyssey of discovery by signing up for early access to
AKASHA.world!**](https://akasha.world/) **üë®‚ÄçüöÄ üåç üöÄ üåå**

[Community](/blog/category/community/)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 ‚Äî Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 ‚Äî Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt‚Ä¶

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

Mar√≠a Sanmart√≠n and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and‚Ä¶

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 ‚Äî Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 ‚Äî Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized‚Ä¶

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ¬∑

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2019/08/16/all-
watched-over-by-machines-of-loving-grace)

