[ ![The Integral](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/04/dydx-
logo-white-1.svg) ](https://integral.dydx.exchange)

  * [ ![The Integral](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/04/dydx-logo-white-1.svg) ](https://integral.dydx.exchange)
  * ### Categories

[

###

Open Finance ](/tag/open-finance/)

[

###

Derivatives ](/tag/derivatives/)

[

###

Macroeconomics ](/tag/macroeconomics/)

[

###

dYdX Announcements ](/tag/dydx-announcements/)

[

###

Educational ](/tag/educational/)

[Trade](https://trade.dydx.exchange)

# AMA Recap: Trader Spotlight feat. CryptoCat

[AMA](https://integral.dydx.exchange/tag/ama/) • May 26, 2020

[
](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://integral.dydx.exchange/ama-
recap-
cryptocat/&title=AMA%20Recap%3A%20Trader%20Spotlight%20feat.%20CryptoCat) [
](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=AMA%20Recap%3A%20Trader%20Spotlight%20feat.%20CryptoCat&url=https://integral.dydx.exchange/ama-
recap-cryptocat/)

On April 23 2020, we hosted our first live AMA Spotlight with
[CryptoCat](https://twitter.com/CryptoCatVC), prop trader and market maker who
accounts for more than 2% of DEX trading volume and one of dYdX’s most active
traders.

In these AMA spotlights, our goal is to bring you the best insights and
commentary from professional crypto traders, market makers, leading industry
experts, and more!

Below is a recap of the AMA with [CryptoCat](https://twitter.com/CryptoCatVC):

 ** _Q: To get started, we’d love to hear a quick background about you and how
you got started with trading in crypto._ **

I have returned to the crypto space in 2017, after leaving it following the
MtGox hack, and being a noob who kept his funds there.Bought the top like many
others, and then went on trying out most dApps on Ethereum before settling in
DeFi.  
  
Becoming a power user and market maker over the last two years. Currently, I
spend my time market making, market taking, OTC, and providing feedback to new
products.  
  
I'm also part of the Israeli crypto community, where I try to bring new people
into ETH and DeFi. And memes, lots of memes.  
  
 ** _Q: First off, want to congratulate you again on winning Ms. Israel in
2005. What a tremendous feat, and well-deserved too. I'm curious why you trade
DeFi vs. CeFi and what you see the most promising areas of growth for DeFi are
in the next year._**  
  
You'd be surprised how many people took that comment seriously. I was
surprised it was more than 0.

I could go about not your keys, not your money, or the trust issues I have
with CeFi since losing a couple BTC on MtGox.  
  
But there is another factor which is speed of execution. Especially in times
of network congestion. A deterministic execution has a lot of value for me.
And I don't like when withdrawing funds from an exchange that is unknown.

 ** _Q: What do you think are the top market making opportunities in DeFi
right now and what kinds of returns can you make?_**

It is a highly competitive field. It depends on how active you want to be in
the process. There is a lot of room for AMM growth given the success of
Uniswap, Balancer, and Curve. All returns are public so you can check them
out!  
  
 ** _Q: What other financial products do you trade or have you traded in the
past? Do you work from home?_**  
  
I'm actually quite a risk averse investor, Had a chat with my accountant this
year, and she asked if I had done any stock trading this year. "No, stocks are
volatile and risky"

The look on her face was priceless ^.^  
  
I have an equivalent of a 401K, which is mostly passive holding market
indices.  
  
And yes, mostly home, a cafe, airport lounges. I can work from anywhere.  
  
 ** _Q: How important is community trust in Oracles and do you welcome the new
implementation that Coinbase announced today? ... and for the traders in the
chat, how do you think this might affect LINK?_**

Oracle trust can be worth about $136B!!  
  
If you have an oracle with a long enough track record, you don't need chain
bridges, or atomic swaps. I think we are not there yet though. There can be no
substitute for a long enough oracle track record to build that needed trust.  
  
Coinbase going into the oracle game is a big deal in my opinion. They have a
well established security record, and I don't expect them to pull off any
funny business.  
  
LINK is RIP. jk, don't kill me :D  
  
 ** _Q: What do you think about oracles - does it bother you that projects
rely on off-chain price sources for pairs like ETH/DAI?_**  
  
I think off-chain sources are a needed intermediary step until we can get a
DEX market that is deep enough to handle millions of $ on-chain.  
  
 ** _Q: What are your thoughts on Gas wars during liquidation periods, where
sometimes up to 100% of liquidation incentives go to miners? What could DEXes
like dYdX do to alleviate this and avoid getting liquidation penalties for
traders going to miners?_**  
  
It is thought that the liquidation game has a profit margin that will be going
to zero in the long run as it becomes more competitive. I don't think we are
there yet.  
  
As for the solution, you could put a hard cap on gas price per liquidation. It
makes no difference who is the liquidator, or if they pay 50gwei or 500gwei as
long as a liquidation is happening in the soonest block.  
  
 ** _Q: How do you think about the balance between technical risk and returns
- i.e. what does your process look like before trading on a new DeFi venue?_**  
  
I will throw a bit of ETH into pretty much anything. And that has served me
quite well thus far. By a bit of ETH I mean pennies, just to try the system
out. Worst case, I lose a couple pennies.  
  
Best case, I'm the first one in and get early experience in the system to have
an edge when more users join.  
  
A good rule of thumb would be to wait half a year before putting anything
substantial. Half a year from the last incident perhaps

 ** _Q: What are your thoughts on DEX aggregators?_**

They are useful at bringing better trade execution for the average user. So a
10-100 ETH range trade would benefit from using a DEX aggregator. I do use
them, but rarely. As I'm looking for the best trade execution, they cannot
deliver that.  
  
DEX aggregators only trade the orders that are on the books at the time of the
trade, and have no prediction of the state of liquidity after the trade.  
  
**_Q: If you could borrow or lend at fixed rates of interest, how long would
you like to fix a rate for? a week, a month, a year?_**  
  
I usually borrow short term. Fixed rates are not that useful for me.  
  
Lending wise, a month would be a unit of time I would benchmark the fixed rate
in.  
  
 ** _Q: How do you think about trading real world indices like S &P500 on
DEXs?_**  
  
When I had to choose a fund for my 401K equivalent, I went for one that was
under-performing, as I am a strong believer in the [regression to mean
theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regression_toward_the_mean) in stock
markets.  
  
 _ **Q: What is important to you from a UI perspective? Is a sleek interface
important to you or do you mainly trade via algo?**  
_  
The most important in a UI is reduction of unforced errors as those tend to be
very painful; confuse a buy with a sell, trade stable-coins where one site
shows the mirror pair, etc.  
  
I prefer a clean UI, without unnecessary noise.  
  
 ** _Q: What are your thoughts on the latest attempts to bring BTC onto DeFi -
are you excited? Anxious? Horrified?_**

I think/hope it will be a good gateway drug. It will give BTC maxis a reason
to try out ETH and DeFi.

I haven’t seen any significant innovation in BTC in the last 2 years, and not
in the near future. So I am excited, why would you be anxious about it?  
  
 ** _Q: What are some features on existing DeFi exchanges that do not exist
across the board that you would like to see standardized on all exchanges? Are
there any features that have yet to be implemented on exchanges that you would
like to see?_**  
  
Is liquidity a feature? :)

I would like to see non-deposit designs on DEXs across the board. I know that
might create functionality limitations though.  
  
I quite like the option to interact with a single order, as opposed to the
orderbook in on-chain DEXs, so if you have 2 dust orders on top of the
orderbook, this would allow you to take the 3rd order, and just that.  
  
I would also like to see tooling that would make things easier when tax season
comes, implemented on all DEXs.  
  
I would also like to see a standard for prices on stablecoin/stablecoin pairs,
or at least an option to see 1/rate, and ETH/WBTC or WBTC/ETH, dont care which
one, as long it is across the board. As for UX i'm not too picky.  
  
 ** _Q: Are there any automated tools you use currently with DEX's that
simplifies your processes?_**  
  
I have created a number of utilities that automate a couple of processes into
a push instead of a pull effort. I do like nansen when doing a cold read on an
address.  
  
 ** _Q: What’s your take on layer 2 dexs like loopring? Will they gain
traction?_**  
  
I think that at the moment, what they are offering is overkill. There isn't
that big of a user demand for trades per second right now. If they can run
long enough for the chain to get congested enough, they will have a definite
edge!  
  
 ** _Q: Have you traded any BTC Products, if so which ones? You mentioned WBTC
earlier…_**  
  
I have traded WBTC here and there, but I rarely hold it for long periods of
time as I'm more bullish on ETH than BTC.  
  
Had a look at BTC+++, and did not see the appeal it may have. Looking at the
dForce hack, you can also see that their BTC, don't recall which one it was,
could not be sold anywhere other than the exchange that issued it.  
  
Those types of assets I wouldn’t touch.  
  
 ** _Q: What do you think needs to happen for DEXs to gain a lot more market
share against centralized exchanges? Do you see BTC markets helping here?_**  
  
That is a very interesting question. A bunch of hacks on centralized exchanges
would help for sure :D  
  
I think more substantial leverage would be a very attractive feature. Along
the lines of the dYdX Perpetual Market.  
  
DEXs requires you to learn new things. seed phrases, gas, etherscan...
Abstracting that could help bring the users over. Basefee (when it will be
implemented), ENS, and the improvement in wallets in the last year are all
steps in that direction.  
  
 ** _Q: Have you traded Bitcoin Perpetuals on avenues like BitMEX, FTX, etc?
If yes, what's your experience been? What gets you interested about the BTC
Perpetual on dYdX?_**  
  
I have, with mixed results. Didn't really know what I was doing at the time :)  
  
The non-custodial aspect is very important for me coupled with the fact that I
know the house is not actively playing against me.  
  
 ** _Q: What specific derivative markets would you like to trade on the
futures / options side? Asset pairs?_**

Interesting question. I'd be interested in short time frame options. Like 3-5
mins.  
  
 ** _Q: If you had any recommendations for traders that want to get into DEXs,
but are primarily used to centralized exchanges, where should they get
started?_**  
  
I think the intermediate step should be to attempt transacting on Ethereum
using wallets. That's the difficult step, once you have that mastered, DEXs
become quite intuitive.  
  
Better to start with small amounts and products that do not have an orderbook
like Uniswap, then graduate to more feature rich DEXs like dYdX.  
  
 ** _Q: Anything else you'd like to add before we wrap up? How can community
members stay engaged with you? Any comments on the dYdX BTC Perpetual?_**  
  
I usually lurk in the [dYdX group](http://https.t.me/dydxofficial), or in the
[DeFi group](https://t.me/de_fi). Or
[@CryptoCatVC](https://twitter.com/CryptoCatVC) on Twitter if you want to send
me a DM.  
  
I think the BTC Perpetual will have a **massive** impact, and facilitate the
growth and innovation in DeFi.

* * *

dYdX is the most powerful open trading platform for crypto assets with spot,
margin, and perpetual markets.  
  
[Start trading on dYdX today](https://trade.dydx.exchange/perpetual/BTC-
USDC?trk-origin=integral-AMA-cryptocat) and check out our new BTC-USDC
perpetual market!  
  
You can reach dYdX via email at contact@dydx.exchange, on
[twitter](https://twitter.com/dydxprotocol), or on our [official
telegram](https:/t.me/dydxofficial).

#### Subscribe to our newsletter

Get the latest posts delivered right to your inbox.

Your email address Subscribe

![Success!](https://integral.dydx.exchange/assets/images/success.png?v=c7f248bd02)

Now check your inbox and click the link to confirm your subscription.

Please enter a valid email address

Oops! There was an error sending the email, please try later.

[ ](https://integral.dydx.exchange/author/dydx/)

####  [dYdX Exchange](https://integral.dydx.exchange/author/dydx/)

dYdX is a decentralized exchange that supports spot, margin, and perpetuals
trading. The Integral is a blog covering Open Finance, Crypto Markets,
Bitcoin, Crypto Derivatives and dYdX Announcements.

No results for your search, please try with something else.

The Integral (C) 2022   •   Published with [Ghost](https://ghost.org)

[ ](https://t.me/joinchat/GBnMlBb9mQblQck2pThTgw) [
](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dydx/) [
](https://twitter.com/dydxprotocol)

[JavaScript license
information](https://integral.dydx.exchange/assets/html/javascript.html?v=c7f248bd02)

Great! You've successfully subscribed.

Great! Next, complete checkout for full access.

Welcome back! You've successfully signed in.

Success! Your account is fully activated, you now have access to all content.

