[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![An Odyssey of Discovery: Year
Two](/static/cb421507eeeaca61d5e782273b0f9e0c/2a43b/shutterstock_694963510-large2.jpg)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

## An Odyssey of Discovery: Year Two

By [Mihai Alisie](/blog/author/mihai-alisie/)

·

May 23, 2018

From just an idea embedded in a handful of minds,
[AKASHA](https://akasha.world/) crystallized into **a community of thousands
of people united by the dream of[a better home of
Mind](https://www.eff.org/cyberspace-independence)**. Today, [1028 days
A.E.](https://etherscan.io/block/0) (After Ethereum), we celebrate together
[over two years](https://blog.akasha.world/2016/05/03/unveiling-akasha/) of
exciting research, intense testing, and heavy development converging into what
will become the next phase for AKASHA.

But, before jumping into the tech, we'd like to say that these years also made
us realize how lucky we are. **Lucky to be alive during these times, lucky to
be a part of this space, and even luckier to have you, the Community, at our
side on the front lines - actively co-creating this new world.**

On that note, your support has been truly invaluable along the way... on many
occasions.

Your kind words and warm encouragements made us believe in ourselves even when
solutions seemed out of reach. Even better, you helped us to get out of our
comfort zone and walk that "extra mile" in the search for better answers.

Among all the hype, craziness and uncertainty surrounding the blockchain
landscape, we found something to center us. Your support. From the bottom of
our hearts, we want to say: **_thank you!!!_**

This one is for **_you!_** \o/

### EDCON: Never forget why you started

[ ![AKASHA](/static/86cb22ed47c78573dd6c50e1c678e484/1c72d/1-1000px.jpg)
](/static/86cb22ed47c78573dd6c50e1c678e484/a2510/1-1000px.jpg)

The latest [EDCON](https://edcon.io/) event organized in Toronto was our third
Ethereum conference participating as AKASHA. It was a fantastic event overall
and a great opportunity to meet again many friendly faces, exchanging ideas
and sharing thoughts with like-minded people. Big thanks go to Pandia,
Shirley, Shuyue and the whole [LinkTime](http://www.linktimetech.com/) team
for making this conference happen!

Just like for the first two Ethereum events we participated in, that feeling
of "belonging" we are subconsciously longing for was overflowing in the
[Ryerson University](https://www.ryerson.ca/about/) during three magical days.
Moreover, since the Ryerson University describes itself at **the intersection
of mind and action** , we felt that it was **the perfect place to discuss the
future of AKASHA.**

Since the early days of the project, the token layer was a topic of big
interest and we spent many hours trying to "crack it" and even removing it
from the equation.

Internally, questions starting from "can we achieve X without a token?" and
ending with "what are the game theory implications of Y?" have been searching
for answers for many months now. At the same time, one of the most frequently
asked questions online was **_" when ICO?"._**

This was likely caused by the "ICO fever" that brought with it [a tsunami of
half-baked tokens and token sales](https://gizmodo.com/wow-who-could-have-
predicted-59-percent-of-2017s-icos-1823309347) ending in minutes (even
seconds) with tens (even hundreds) of millions of dollars in funds raised -
some without even a prototype to demonstrate that the idea is actually
feasible.

**In our case, from the start, the general agreement within the AKASHA Team
was that if the idea(s) and implementation(s) are solid then the money will
follow... but as a side-effect, not as the _main goal._**

**Our main goal revolves around leveraging decentralized technologies to
empower people with better tools of communication; it is not about launching a
token just "because ICO". Or lambos.**

[ ![AKASHA](/static/16f070df8007ea156cf18f2139337c22/1c72d/2-1000px.jpg)
](/static/16f070df8007ea156cf18f2139337c22/a2510/2-1000px.jpg)

With this in mind, we tried to make it clear from the beginning that **AKASHA
will not conduct an "ICO" just for the purpose of raising money.** Moreover,
we all agreed as a team that **_if there will be an "ICO"_** then it will be
for **a token that actually solves an otherwise "unsolvable problem" in the
overall system.**

This mindset, alongside your support, helped us to stay true to ourselves
during the past two years while walking the unknown path of blockchain
pioneering through trial and error. It was not easy, but along the way, we
realized that in every failure there is also a lesson to be learned.

This is how the path of trial-and-error-error-error lead us to Essence, a new
token idea that seems very promising, since it would help us to tackle several
big challenges that any social network faces.

Among the highlights, we have **a separation of the
reputation/moderation/voting layer from the posting layer** through
multidimensional signaling and **an emergent, multidimensional, reputation
system resulting from the signaling activity within the network.**

**Even more importantly, our _main goal_ of leveraging decentralized
technologies to provide better systems of communication is _enhanced_ rather
than diminished by this new token idea.** In our experience, this is a rare
thing when it comes to token ideas.

This being said, it's worth mentioning that this is a work in progress and
that we expect it to evolve in the following weeks as we are formalizing it
into a document, describing in more detail the smart contract architecture and
how the concept works on the technical side.

There is no guarantee that this idea will work better than others, however,
**its potential is too good to leave it unexplored in greater depth.** Even if
this experiment doesn't work, the insights and knowledge resulting from it
will prove invaluable to us in the next experiment.

Two years after we unveiled the project, **it still feels like we 're barely
getting started!**

Let's see where this new rabbit hole will lead us to!

Those interested can find our [EDCON
presentation](https://youtu.be/3dq7aDMdS7g) at the end of this post.

### Getting to the Essence of things

[ ![AKASHA](/static/7a4b18f661fc35ea534bd108a929407b/1c72d/Screen-
Shot-2018-04-27-at-9.48.03-AM.jpg)
](/static/7a4b18f661fc35ea534bd108a929407b/b17f8/Screen-
Shot-2018-04-27-at-9.48.03-AM.jpg)

Looking back, we've come a long way since our first token experiments. While
in the alpha stage, we purposefully avoided the "token challenge". In the beta
stage, we decided to give it our best.

Rooted in a deep awareness that we are just a small team with big dreams and
limited resources to make them happen, we began exploring ideas.

One of the ideas that caught our attention involved a multi-tier token capable
of transitioning between several states. In this approach, a token could be
transferable in some states, non-transferable in other states, or regenerable.
**As a concept, it offered flexibility, and we liked that indeed.**

This idea was presented during the DEVCON 3 event that took place in Cancun
last year, in our presentation titled "Unveiling the next experiment." In the
first iteration, the token placeholder was AETH and we tried to make it clear
that this name was not decided upon, inviting everyone to join us in the
search for better names and ideas.

Those interested can [read this post for more
details](https://blog.akasha.world/2017/11/14/new-horizons/).

Fast forwarding, the EDCON Toronto event took place exactly 6 months after
DEVCON 3 and in all this time we've experimented with several ideas, trying to
understand how we could take the concept to the next level.

In the process, we didn't stumble upon just "level 2" but rather had a glimpse
at its "n level" conclusion. This is how the second iteration of the
experiment gave birth to what we now call "Essence," a multi-dimensional token
framework.

Deep down, we feel that this approach hints also to what the next generation
of tokens (i.e. Token 2.0) could look like.

At EDCON we tried to paint a picture describing how this idea could work and
also why it would make sense in our current (collected) Information Society.
The best part is that we're going to figure out if the idea is solid together
through many parallel and playful experiments!

How cool is that? 🙂

### AKASHA Essence: a colorful token framework

[
![AKASHA](/static/2576c3bdda7190d4618e5091b6000492/1c72d/shutterstock_336951869.jpg)
](/static/2576c3bdda7190d4618e5091b6000492/a2510/shutterstock_336951869.jpg)

In nature, the phenomenon of colors enables visual perception capable of
differentiating otherwise identical objects. Furthermore, depending on the
case, colors can be used as an universal communication language, transcending
species.

From plants to animals to advertising, we have many examples in day-to-day
life where colors are used to communicate anything from "danger" to
"attraction."

Since colors can be described in terms of hue, lightness, and saturation, we
feel that we have a solid conceptual foundation upon which we can develop a
new framework for signaling systems based on blockchain technology.

On this note, **when trying to understand the concept of Essence, it is
helpful to imagine it as a white glowing liquid which resembles water.**

One of the main properties of this glowing liquid is that it can be infused
with instructions, creating in the process various kinds of Essence
derivations. Each derived Essence has its own unique glowing color and
properties, hence the naming of "Colored Essence".

[
![AKASHA](/static/955756f0608bec5dd74b6f4723f8bf16/fcda8/Screen%20Shot%202018-05-22%20at%208.16.52%20PM.png)
](/static/955756f0608bec5dd74b6f4723f8bf16/29007/Screen%20Shot%202018-05-22%20at%208.16.52%20PM.png)

When starting, the users will have in their balance "pure Essence" that they
can use to either participate in an existing community/signal (Colors) or to
create their own by coloring their Essence. On the other hand, if an user
wants to remove themselves from a particular community/signal, the "Colored
Essence" can be decolored back in its "pure Essence" form.

Similarly to how Alchemists mix substances and elements for various purposes,
**AKASHA users will now have at their fingertips a way to co-create new ways
of looking at the world.**

[ ![AKASHA](/static/0eba7242fce2bbc6348cd7ed7858ad56/1c72d/graph1.jpg)
](/static/0eba7242fce2bbc6348cd7ed7858ad56/49c24/graph1.jpg)

If we'd take social insects like ants, using pheromones to mark the path to
food, in our case, each Colored Essence becomes its own unique "pheromone"
that can be used to mark "paths" to relevant information. This introduces **a
new way for AKASHA users to navigate the constantly accelerating information
flux in the search for relevant information.** Quite handy.

[ ![AKASHA](/static/c9d7ea0d7b5130629dbacb1296289414/1c72d/graph2.jpg)
](/static/c9d7ea0d7b5130629dbacb1296289414/49c24/graph2.jpg)

Through the user activity, each Color generates a feed and the Colored Essence
present in the user's balance will highlight the activity within the group
while keeping also an overall overview of how the content is perceived in the
bigger picture.

[ ![AKASHA](/static/f512abea78276d42e2f27377f3de2e01/1c72d/graph3.jpg)
](/static/f512abea78276d42e2f27377f3de2e01/49c24/graph3.jpg)

[
![AKASHA](/static/e5c3bb3ae1dfcadc01c985dc629ea392/fcda8/Screen%20Shot%202018-05-22%20at%208.05.57%20PM.png)
](/static/e5c3bb3ae1dfcadc01c985dc629ea392/0c1c2/Screen%20Shot%202018-05-22%20at%208.05.57%20PM.png)

Through this approach, we create a "Minecraft of attention networks" with a
"coinmarketcap-like" section representing a window into this new kind of
"decentralized attention market". It's also **an interesting new take on what
tokens can be useful for - decentralized parallel[information
processing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_processing).**

[
![AKASHA](/static/6d071df29ba71f3b2c35ba53e905ce88/fcda8/Screen%20Shot%202018-05-22%20at%208.19.07%20PM.png)
](/static/6d071df29ba71f3b2c35ba53e905ce88/29007/Screen%20Shot%202018-05-22%20at%208.19.07%20PM.png)

**Hopefully, this approach will liberate our minds from the "one perfect token
model to do everything" burden by creating a token framework enabling people
to organically come up with ideas in the search for the best one(s).**

[
![AKASHA](/static/45185d4ba601f1d22c6cf60e17e28d84/fcda8/Screen%20Shot%202018-05-22%20at%208.11.41%20PM.png)
](/static/45185d4ba601f1d22c6cf60e17e28d84/29007/Screen%20Shot%202018-05-22%20at%208.11.41%20PM.png)

This is very interesting also because **the curation layer can "evolve" in
time, with better curation and incentive schemes bubbling up organically to
"top 10" while others fade away.**

[
![AKASHA](/static/2710b6abcd81dff040831c0f834a1a81/fcda8/Screen%20Shot%202018-05-22%20at%208.09.39%20PM.png)
](/static/2710b6abcd81dff040831c0f834a1a81/29007/Screen%20Shot%202018-05-22%20at%208.09.39%20PM.png)

In other words, **the Colored Essence offers a new kind of "lens" through
which the user is capable of exploring, discovering, and creating "reality"
from a multi-dimensional perspective.** This way, not only is the user in
control of their information flows; they are also made aware of the "echo
chambers" surrounding them.

[
![AKASHA](/static/332debb6368bae8af13976e299c7a1f4/fcda8/Screen%20Shot%202018-05-22%20at%208.22.12%20PM.png)
](/static/332debb6368bae8af13976e299c7a1f4/29007/Screen%20Shot%202018-05-22%20at%208.22.12%20PM.png)

The plan is to have a working prototype implementing the new token framework
in the coming weeks. The next stage is to stress test and see if the idea and
implementation concepts are solid. We'll see what comes after that!

**Exciting times ahead!**

### But why? How is this different from ... ?

[ ![AKASHA](/static/00996beff4bd15575a4a89a38f67308a/1c72d/akasha-color-
explosion.jpg) ](/static/00996beff4bd15575a4a89a38f67308a/b17f8/akasha-color-
explosion.jpg)

It is somewhat counter-intuitive given the current "ICO landscape" that **our
intention is not to simply create "a token" to raise funds - but to create a
framework for multiple, parallel, crypto economic experiments.**

Whereas the majority of social networks take the "one size fits all" route for
publishing, curation, moderation, and incentivization, **we envision a future
in which multiple viewpoints and incentive models can co-exist, intersect and
co-evolve in the process.**

With this in mind, **instead of focusing our efforts on creating "one perfect
incentive model", we chose to take the route of a token framework designed to
tap into the collective intelligence of participants while maximizing the
collaboration potential.**

This approach opens AKASHA to massive, parallel, experimentation that should
ultimately allow the best solutions to organically bubble up.

You can imagine A/B testing on the crypto economics layer; taking the most
interesting token proposals and learning how they impact the health of the
ecosystem and its behavior. The most promising ideas will receive extra
attention and undergo intense break-a-thons in an attempt to expose any
weaknesses.

Most of the experiments will fail and that's **_okay_** because we learn from
it.

Through these experiments, we increase our chances of finding the "most
amazing token ideas for social networks ever."

Moreover, once they are uncovered, we have built in the process the **perfect
environment where these ideas can reach new levels of insight - since they 're
not evolving in one mind, but in a sea of minds vibrating in unison. Epic.**

That being said, in the first phase, we will not insist on the incentives,
rewards and game theory implications as we will focus our efforts on building
a prototype followed by an MVP, gradually introducing new functionality
throughout the AKASHA dapp.

The incentives, rewards and game theory will be studied in-depth at a later
stage when we will begin to understand more about the nature of this new,
uncharted, world. On the bright side, the ideas and data gathered in this
phase will be used to draft a more detailed plan for the next phase of the
experiment!

In conclusion, the topics presented here are active areas of research within
the AKASHA project and it is very hard to condense everything in just one blog
post. We anticipate more in-depth articles over the next few months as we
adventure deeper into this new experiment.

In the meantime, if you're interested to join the fun by collaborating or
sharing ideas, you can get in touch with us by sending an email to research
[at] akasha.world or by joining our Discord channel.

You can also join us in testing the AKASHA dapps
([desktop](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases) and
[web](https://beta.akasha.world/)) by [opening GitHub
issues](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/issues) when something doesn't
work as it should. **Join a worldwide community of thousands of people who
are[co-creating today a better Web of tomorrow!](https://akasha.world/) \o/**

[News](/blog/category/news/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2018/05/23/akasha-
odyssey-year-two)

