[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![An Odyssey of
Discovery](/static/47c9676febb8a04e5e0d1f8834332c97/2a43b/starmap.jpg)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

## An Odyssey of Discovery

By [Mihai Alisie](/blog/author/mihai-alisie/)

·

May 03, 2017

On this [very special
day](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Press_Freedom_Day), one year ago, [we
unveiled AKASHA](https://blog.akasha.world/2016/05/03/unveiling-akasha/) and
called for brave people to join us in the quest for a better Web. It was a
complete shot in the dark but we were cautiously optimistic. Luckily, [the
response](https://blog.akasha.world/2016/05/26/update-highlights-and-
interesting-developments/) exceeded even our most optimistic expectations.
While some of us we were secretly hoping to reach 100 signups in the first
month; over 200 people signed up in less than 24 hours.

**In less than a month we surpassed 2000 people.**

[ ![Juan Benet IPFS
AKASHA](/static/a61eee94365a4293b965153b475695b3/1c72d/2000.jpg)
](/static/a61eee94365a4293b965153b475695b3/efc8b/2000.jpg)

**By the end of 2016 we were looking at 7000 people.**

However, even more amazing than the sheer numbers is that these ( **you** )
people found our project **organically.**

We spent $0 on advertising because we wanted to measure the **real** interest
in the project. We felt that advertising would "taint" the results since we
would end up analysing the efficiency of targeted ads, rather than the merits
of the idea itself. We wanted to reach the people **truly** resonating with
the idea and measure the potential of the project as a whole without any
marketing gimmicks.

This leads to the assumption that those of you finding yourselves reading
these lines participate- in your own way- in a new kind of enlightenment so
vast in its implications that _no one_ really understands its full
ramifications yet.

To some extent it almost feels like an ant trying to figure out what an
elephant is by crawling all over its vast amount of skin. Whenever it stumbles
upon something new such as a leg or an ear; the ant's (limited) understanding
of the "big picture" radically changes.

In our own way, I think we are experiencing something similar in the Ethereum
universe. Apparently this exact type of intellectual discovery through playful
exploration is what attracts the so-called "innovators" demographic described
by Everett Rogers in the [theory of diffusion of
innovations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diffusion_of_innovations) \-
tenacious spirits subconsciously waiting for their cue to awaken and change
the world.

[ ![Juan Benet IPFS
AKASHA](/static/b31600971117ea1e80dcb65da7fb6b1e/1c72d/innovators.jpg)
](/static/b31600971117ea1e80dcb65da7fb6b1e/12609/innovators.jpg)

It's almost as if some people are wired to be magnetically drawn to creating,
influencing and pushing new paradigms beyond the "[tipping
point](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tipping_point_\(sociology\))".

Although the parallels between AKASHA and the diffusion of innovation theory
deserve a whole post on their own; in this one I would like to draw your
attention to something else.

If you are reading these lines, it's very likely that you are one of the so
called "innovators" in our current society. Or rather **one of us** \- part of
a worldwide community of thousands of people- co-creating today a better Web
of tomorrow.

In this light, AKASHA can be seen as an ethereal beacon, drawing like-minded
individuals capable of truly changing the world, in this case by leveraging
new technologies.

**Through playful experimentation we 're exploring a future in which our
collective memory, freedom of expression and privacy are not outsourced
anymore - a future in which human relations are not owned by corporations.**

With your help we were able to make the first steps and prove that **this
future is possible.**

### The First Year: Root, Growth & Evolution

> "It is our hope that years from now, we will look back at today --- May 3rd,
> 2016 --- as the day on which the idea that freedom of expression can be a
> default standard on the web took root on the Internet."

[ ![Juan Benet IPFS
AKASHA](/static/bcced802e38b88d7793e4eb3b2e3971d/1c72d/Spacelapse.jpg)
](/static/bcced802e38b88d7793e4eb3b2e3971d/9e3d7/Spacelapse.jpg)

Following your amazing warm welcome, we felt both energized and motivated to
give it our 110% and deliver _something good_ as soon as possible. It was
becoming clear that we haven't been crazy for spending the last several months
of our lives working on this....or that we weren't the only ones who were
crazy! :)

Fast forwarding a few months - on the evening between 22-23 Dec - we were
making the final preparations for the first public release. This is when we
stumbled upon a new bug while working on the first AKASHA guide/tutorial to
help people get started with our dapp. Oh snap.

For a brief moment, the overall feeling went from excitement to sadness- as we
were beginning to doubt if we would get AKASHA into the hands of people this
year. But before the bitter feeling could even settle in, the team was already
back at their computers trying to figure out what went wrong.

This started around 21:00 and lasted until close to 00:30 when we had finally
fixed things up.

Around 03:20 we were ready with pretty much everything, and then this message
greeted us:

[ ![Juan Benet IPFS
AKASHA](/static/66e1c6aa19fba9d7da8ff6f87a647bcd/1c72d/mailchimp-glory.jpg)
](/static/66e1c6aa19fba9d7da8ff6f87a647bcd/212bf/mailchimp-glory.jpg)

Here is a picture of our Bucharest team celebrating Christmas and the first
release of the alpha. It was a Christmas to remember!

[ ![Juan Benet IPFS
AKASHA](/static/cee224198fea982081cc48269548601b/1c72d/christmas-team.jpg)
](/static/cee224198fea982081cc48269548601b/eea4a/christmas-team.jpg)

Following the release, these comments were the best Christmas present we could
have hoped for!

[ ![Juan Benet IPFS
AKASHA](/static/6f41585e56835c4fa0e102c532765113/1c72d/christmas-comments.jpg)
](/static/6f41585e56835c4fa0e102c532765113/eea4a/christmas-comments.jpg)

Step by step, we learned how to fuse [Ethereum](https://ethereum.org/) and
[IPFS](https://ipfs.io/) into a functional dapp, how to build decentralized
identity and voting systems, how to implement IRC-like interfaces for Whisper-
based secure group messaging, and how to bring to life truly private searches
with our Whisper search engine experiment.

Make no mistake, it took many experiments to get where we are today, and you,
the Community, shaped the course of this project through your involvement - we
learned so much thanks to you!

Thanks to you, AKASHA serves as a home to **over 3000 decentralized identities
and almost 2000 censorship-resistant articles - summing up about 4000 micro-
transaction votes.**

**In less than four months since the alpha public release, we have proven
together that the idea can work and we are already starting to understand how
we can make it work better!**

I think it is time to declare that the first stages of the experiment were a
**resounding SUCCESS**! \o/ \o/ \o/

### The Next Year: New Horizons

> "Only those who dare to fail greatly can ever achieve greatly." \-- Robert
> F. Kennedy

[ ![Juan Benet IPFS
AKASHA](/static/d0b17bcc4a2d379840c23064476dc29a/1c72d/new-horizons.jpg)
](/static/d0b17bcc4a2d379840c23064476dc29a/eea4a/new-horizons.jpg)

If the first year was mostly focused on the "tech challenge" and proving that
the idea can work- the next year will be mainly about exploring new horizons
and pushing the experiment(s) to the next level.

The code refactoring is in full swing and expected to enter public tests
around this summer. When ready, the new codebase will provide us with improved
foundations on top of which we can further grow and evolve- both as a project
and community.

On this note, here are some of the things we've been working on since the last
blog post:

  * Laying the foundations for the web version
  * Improving the overall performance and stability
  * Enabling two-way third party integrations with AKASHA
  * Making the code easier to read and contribute to in anticipation of the open source release
  * Deploying the dapp on IPFS, making it accessible through any IPFS node or gateway
  * Optimizing the Ethereum dapp architecture, gas usage and modularity for the next round of experiments

We are also working on a major UI/UX redesign which will improve the discovery
of content and overall user experience as a whole. Aside from the redesign
itself, we are in the process of making the necessary adjustments for a
transition to a user-centric design process which should **open the AKASHA
interface to the community for rapid iteration and experimentation.**

We are really looking forward to seeing how the interface will evolve when we
can tap into the collective intelligence present in this project. **You, and
by extension the whole Community, will be directly guiding us to find the best
possible user interface with the least amount of effort possible for
everyone.**

After all, we are a community of innovators. We can do better than just
guessing: "what might work", right? :)

We want to apply this type of thinking to other areas too.

### Next Experiment: Crypto Economics

> "If you aren't in over your head, how do you know how tall you are?" \--
> T.S. Eliot

Since the _beginning_ , the AKASHA token was a matter of great interest for
all of us. However, the amount of research and development that goes into
architecting a solid crypto economic token foundation was too much for us to
handle at the time. We already had a big experiment on our hands: prove that
the idea can work from a technological standpoint.

[ ![Juan Benet IPFS
AKASHA](/static/992e7eb2b4ad29cc84fb48106ecbb918/1c72d/tokentokentoken.jpg)
](/static/992e7eb2b4ad29cc84fb48106ecbb918/5ac89/tokentokentoken.jpg)

This is why we decided to treat the token aspect of AKASHA as an "experiment
module" of its own- next to other interesting crypto challenges such as
reputation. So we began to root ourselves in an awareness that _we are just a
handful of people with limited resources and big dreams._

It helped to frame it as a game- in the sense that if we can solve the "tech
challenge" then we can focus our available resources on the "incentives
challenge" \- we have to pass level 1 before gaining access to level 2.

[ ![Challenge
accepted](/static/21abf53af3b90c2a893d41ab70ef94d6/1c72d/challenge-
accepted.jpg) ](/static/21abf53af3b90c2a893d41ab70ef94d6/0f98f/challenge-
accepted.jpg)

It was not the "standard" blockchain project approach - write a paper, make a
website, add advisors, launch a token sale - we wanted to focus more on the
"technology" in the first stage rather than "the money" anyway.

We figured that if the idea and product are solid then "the money" will follow
naturally.

**Now that the code refactoring is nearing completion we have started to shift
our attention to the next challenge: incentives. We couldn 't be more excited
about it - we've been waiting for this moment for a long time!**

Just a few weeks ago [Vlad Zamfir](https://twitter.com/VladZamfir) visited our
hacklab and shared his wisdom. It was a **_fun week_** filled with
brainstorming sessions and insightful moments. Among many things, we have
explored the concept of continuous token models and how the idea could fit
into the whole puzzle.

[ ![Vlad Zamfir AKASHA](/static/68ec645cf12d8ffa25801c716a84a2c8/1c72d/vlad-
zamfir-akasha.jpg) ](/static/68ec645cf12d8ffa25801c716a84a2c8/0c02e/vlad-
zamfir-akasha.jpg)

We filled the whiteboard with ideas and made notes in anticipation for the
next step.

In just a few days we will enjoy the company of another special guest at our
hacklab - [Meher Roy](https://twitter.com/MeherRoy). You might know him from
the [Epicenter show](https://epicenter.tv/) or for his contributions to crypto
economic models surrounding attention economies. We met for the first time in
the early days of Ethereum at the Swiss "space ship" house and have worked
since then on different projects.

[ ![Juan Benet IPFS
AKASHA](/static/0fce219cb2a325fd82ef64a63d8ff326/1c72d/meher-presentation.jpg)
](/static/0fce219cb2a325fd82ef64a63d8ff326/145f8/meher-presentation.jpg)

Recently, we began realizing that we were working, in our own way, on
different pieces of the same puzzle. We plan to publish a detailed blog post
covering the exchange of ideas after the visit, and we want to document our
discussions and findings - hopefully capturing the genesis of something
**_amazing_**.

**Somewhat counter-intuitive given the current "ICO landscape", the intention
is not to simply create "a token" to raise funds- but to create a framework
for multiple crypto economic experiments. The main idea is revolving around
changing various incentive layer parameters and parallel experimentation.**

You can imagine A/B testing on the crypto economics layer; taking the most
interesting token proposals and learning how they impact the health of the
ecosystem and its behaviour. The most promising ideas will receive extra
attention and undergo intense breakathons in an attempt to expose any
weaknesses that might have escaped until this stage.

Most of the experiments will fail and that's **_okay_** , because we learn
from the process.

Through these experiments we increase our chance of finding the " _most
amazing token idea for social networks ever_ ". Once that is uncovered, we
have built in the process the **perfect environment where the idea can reach
new levels of insight** \- **since it 's not evolving in one mind; but in a
sea of minds made up virtually entirely of innovators.**

We have found each other across thousands of kilometers and opened up a portal
into an _alternate future_ \- a world where lines of code dance with atoms at
the edge of singularity.

Before stepping through - I encourage you to take a moment and enjoy this
achievement. **You deserve it.**

This is more than just witnessing history in the making. This is what building
the future feels like.

How far can we take it? What's the limit? Is there really a limit in the first
place?

[Let's find out together!](https://akasha.world/)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2017/05/03/akasha-
odyssey-year-one)

