Skip to content

##  [ Caitlin Long ](https://caitlin-long.com)

Menu

  * [Home](https://caitlin-long.com/)
  * [Disclaimer](https://caitlin-long.com/disclaimer/)
  * [Blockchain](https://caitlin-long.com/category/blockchain/)
  * [Economics](https://caitlin-long.com/category/economics/)
  * [Pensions](https://caitlin-long.com/category/pensions/)
  * [About Caitlin](https://caitlin-long.com/about-caitlin/)

![Caitlin
Long](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw==)![Caitlin
Long](https://secureservercdn.net/198.71.233.179/69l.92a.myftpupload.com/wp-
content/uploads/bb-plugin/cache/jackson-photo-panorama.jpeg)

#  An Update from Wyoming

November 20, 2019 / [pwsadmin](https://caitlin-long.com/author/pwsadmin/) /
[No Comments](https://caitlin-long.com/an-update-from-wyoming/#respond)

Hi everyone—a professional update. I’ve resigned from the Wyoming Blockchain
Task Force, choosing to end nearly two years of volunteer work as I consider
starting a proper job again. My resignation is mostly a formality, since the
Blockchain Task Force actually concluded its work in September and it won’t be
renewed (it’s actually “growing up” into something better–a committee that can
originate its own legislation, as explained below). Most likely I’ll go back
to working in the blockchain industry–but thank you to whoever nominated me to
be President of the University of Wyoming. Wow, what an honor just to be
mentioned for that!

Reflecting on what the Blockchain Task Force accomplished during its tenure, I
think a software analogy is apt: Wyoming released a comprehensive, open-source
operating system (i.e., the legal framework including 13 enabling laws + 8
more bills proposed for 2020), on top of which users are able to build
applications (i.e., blockchain businesses). But Wyoming is far from finished,
as future upgrades and new versions are still on the planned roadmap.

Despite the Wyoming Blockchain Task Force officially moving into the history
books (just as other states are starting to launch their blockchain task
forces!), the Wyoming legislature will almost certainly replace it with
something better: a select committee of the legislature. A select committee
can be even more responsive to the blockchain industry’s future needs and
challenges because it will be able to sponsor legislation directly, while the
Task Force could only propose legislation and had to scramble to find
sponsors–which was a time-consuming extra step in the process that introduced
risks. There’s another difference between a select committee and a task
force—only legislators can vote on select committees, but private citizens
cannot. So, the private citizens (like me) who served on the Wyoming
Blockchain Task Force would not be allowed a voting role on a select
committee. Nonetheless, I’d bet each of the private citizens who served on the
Task Force (Will Cole, Matt Kaufman, David Pope and me) will continue to help
both Wyoming and the industry when we can.

Before finishing its work in September, the Wyoming Blockchain Task Force
proposed eight new bills for the 2020 legislative session, and committees have
now agreed to sponsor all eight of them. This means they have a pretty strong
chance of becoming law during the upcoming 2020 legislative session..

I’m going offline for a while to make some decisions and will let you know
when I come back up for air. It was a tremendous honor to serve my beloved
home state on the Task Force. Thanks for your support everyone, and #CowboyOn!

Posted in [Blockchain](https://caitlin-long.com/category/blockchain/)

![CAITLIN
LONG](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw==)![CAITLIN
LONG](https://secureservercdn.net/198.71.233.179/69l.92a.myftpupload.com/wp-
content/uploads/2019/12/Caitlin_Hero.png)

###  [ CAITLIN LONG ](/about-caitlin/)

Bitcoin/blockchain, ex-Wyoming Blockchain Task Force, 22-year Wall Street
veteran.

###  Disclaimer

This web site is limited to the dissemination of general information,
investment-related information, publications, and links.

Please consult important additional information and qualifications
[HERE](/disclaimer/).

View [**Privacy Policy**](/privacy-policy/) and [**Terms of Use**](/terms-of-
use/)

###  Connect with me on Social Media

[ __](https://www.facebook.com/Caitlin-Long-192638687800053/ "Facebook") [
__](https://twitter.com/caitlinlong_/ "Twitter") [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/authwall?trk=ripf&trkInfo=AQHrFIBCEKp8
RgAAAW6kZK5gKGBfoaOL4RcdaPrSapGmg3lV3BqVJKngH8DyEZG16po6ZlgMjS-
cnC8oJTie6XRHg9hLwQd31jCcPE_5JRA65SJ4TlOGMAlTj5tJMLk
1M7xEtE=&originalReferer=https://caitlin-long.com/&sessionRedirect=https%3A
%2F%2Fwww.linkedin.com%2Fin%2Fcaitlin-long-356b383a%2F "LinkedIn")

## Search Posts

[Tweets by CaitlinLong_](https://twitter.com/CaitlinLong_)

## Categories

  * [Blockchain](https://caitlin-long.com/category/blockchain/)
  * [Economics](https://caitlin-long.com/category/economics/)
  * [homeblog](https://caitlin-long.com/category/homeblog/)
  * [Pensions](https://caitlin-long.com/category/pensions/)

## Recent Posts

  * [An Update from Wyoming](https://caitlin-long.com/an-update-from-wyoming/) November 20, 2019
  * [The Real Story Of The Repo Market Meltdown, And What It Means For Bitcoin](https://caitlin-long.com/the-real-story-of-the-repo-market-meltdown-and-what-it-means-for-bitcoin/) September 23, 2019
  * [WyoHackathon 2019 Takeaways: Kids Rule, Hardware Wallets Fly and Wyoming Wins](https://caitlin-long.com/wyohackathon-2019-takeaways-kids-rule-hardware-wallets-fly-and-wyoming-wins/) September 23, 2019
  * [Facebook’s Cryptocurrency, Libra: Senate Banking Testimony](https://caitlin-long.com/facebooks-cryptocurrency-libra-senate-banking-testimony/) July 15, 2019
  * [Bitcoin, The Dollar And Facebook’s Cryptocurrency: Price Volatility Versus Systemic Volatility](https://caitlin-long.com/bitcoin-the-dollar-and-facebooks-cryptocurrency-price-volatility-versus-systemic-volatility/) June 29, 2019

## Post navigation

[<- The Real Story Of The Repo Market Meltdown, And What It Means For
Bitcoin](https://caitlin-long.com/the-real-story-of-the-repo-market-meltdown-
and-what-it-means-for-bitcoin/)

[ __](https://www.facebook.com/Caitlin-Long-192638687800053/ "Facebook") [
__](https://twitter.com/caitlinlong_/ "Twitter") [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/authwall?trk=ripf&trkInfo=AQHrFIBCEKp8
RgAAAW6kZK5gKGBfoaOL4RcdaPrSapGmg3lV3BqVJKngH8DyEZG16po6ZlgMjS-
cnC8oJTie6XRHg9hLwQd31jCcPE_5JRA65SJ4TlOGMAlTj5tJMLk
1M7xEtE=&originalReferer=https://caitlin-long.com/&sessionRedirect=https%3A
%2F%2Fwww.linkedin.com%2Fin%2Fcaitlin-long-356b383a%2F "LinkedIn")

  * [Home](https://caitlin-long.com/)
  * [Disclaimer](https://caitlin-long.com/disclaimer/)
  * [Blockchain](https://caitlin-long.com/category/blockchain/)
  * [Economics](https://caitlin-long.com/category/economics/)
  * [Pensions](https://caitlin-long.com/category/pensions/)
  * [About Caitlin](https://caitlin-long.com/about-caitlin/)
  * [Privacy Policy](https://caitlin-long.com/privacy-policy/)
  * [Terms of Use](https://caitlin-long.com/terms-of-use/)

© 2019, Caitlin Long. All Rights Reserved.

[![GoDaddy Web
Design](//nebula.wsimg.com/aadc63d8e8dbd533470bdc4e350bc4af?AccessKeyId=B7351D786AE96FEF6EBB&disposition=0&alloworigin=1)](https://www.godaddy.com/websites/web-
design)

Scroll To Top __

