[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ 中文 ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [interviews](../../../blog/interviews)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Aug 4, 2020  

## Andrew Cronk & Yannick Folla, Figment Networks

_Welcome to the eighth installment of the Filecoin Community Highlights
series, which features users and developers building essential tools and
services on the Filecoin network. We hope this post, as well as others in this
series, inspires you to join the movement and build world-class tools for the
distributed web. Check out the_ [_last post_](https://filecoin.io/blog/hackfs-
teams-vol-2/) _featuring some of the teams participating in HackFS._

Andrew Cronk and Yannick Folla manage product and growth for [Figment
Networks](https://figment.network/), which provides enterprise-grade node and
staking infrastructure, and developer tools for Web3 protocols. Last month,
Figment Networks launched [DataHub](https://figment.network/datahub/), which
makes it easier for developers to leverage blockchain technologies without
needing to become protocol experts.

We spoke with Andrew and Yannick about Figment Networks’ interest in Web3 and
what tools they offer to help make the Web3 future a reality.

**What’s the idea behind Figment?**

Figment lowers the barrier to entry for blockchain developers. We want to make
it easier for developers to build the next generation of blockchain technology
by offering tools to stake tokens, build applications, and participate in
blockchain governance.

The company was founded in 2018 by Matt Harrop, Lorien Gabel, and Andrew
Cronk, each of whom had prior experience working in infrastructure and
security. Together, we share a passion for decentralized technologies. Figment
Networks’ guiding principle is to support the adoption, growth, and long-term
success of the Web3 ecosystem.

Our products include [enterprise-grade node and staking
infrastructure](https://figment.network/infrastructure/), the [Hubble Web 3
explorer](https://figment.network/hubble/), and a host of developer tools,
which we call [DataHub](https://figment.network/datahub/). We’re also actively
engaged in blockchain communities and governance groups within the protocols
we support, and we are constantly publishing educational resources to grow
awareness around Web3 development.

Figment Networks is a distributed-first company, though the majority of our
DevOps team and most of our data centers are based in Canada. We are, to our
knowledge, the largest blockchain infrastructure provider in Canada.

**Tell us more about DataHub.**

We’ve been working with blockchain data, building reporting tools, and our
Hubble explorer for the past few years. We’ve had to solve a number of
technical challenges along the way, and we are opening up these tools,
infrastructure, and datasets to other developers with DataHub.

The goal with DataHub is to make it easy for more developers to start building
with blockchain and Web3 technologies in three phases:

  1. “No more nodes” gateway access - we run a highly available cluster of full nodes so developers can submit transactions and read raw chain data.
  2. Higher level analytics APIs - we constantly scan incoming blockchain data, calculate analytics, and serve up the enriched data via API.
  3. App usage data - developers can see the most popular parts of their app and estimate users and usage.

**What is your hope for how Figment’s tools and services will contribute to
the early Filecoin ecosystem?**

What we’re doing specifically for Filecoin is building a [reputation system
spec](https://figment.network/datahub/) and API for storage miners. It’s
essentially a staking API where we index miners’ data and allow anyone to
build with it. It’s similar to the data that powers Hubble, which is our
explorer tool that we built for other networks as well for Filecoin.

With Hubble, we currently support 9 networks like Cosmos, Tezos, and NEAR and
we should be supporting around 10 to 12 by the end of Q3 of this year. And our
plan is for Datahub to be available for about 10 networks by the end of this
year.

![Figment DataHub](https://filecoin.io/vintage/images/blog/community-figment-
datahub.png)

**Why Web3? Where do you see the web heading over the next decade?**

The recent Twitter hack shows the importance of a user’s control of their data
(hackers sent unauthorized tweets from popular verified accounts), and data
verifiability and authenticity will become paramount. Web3 can succeed by
linking communities together while preserving individual privacy.

**Figment participated in Filecoin’s DevGrant program. Tell us more about what
you submitted and what you’re building.**

Our miner reputation system will give further transparency to users on the
Filecoin network. Users will be able to track performance and build out
profiles of storage miners. This will allow users to make more informed
decisions when storing and accessing data in a secure and reliable way on the
Filecoin network.

Outside of this, we plan to provide value to the Filecoin ecosystem by
providing storage to the network and we hope to build more tools in the future
to make developing on Filecoin as seamless as possible.

### Related Articles

[View all articles](../../../blog)

[ ](../../../blog/posts/filecoin-community-highlights-slate/)

updates

##  [ Filecoin Community Highlights: Slate ](../../../blog/posts/filecoin-
community-highlights-slate/)

Slate is the first storage application designed to encourage collaboration and
research across a distributed network.

Dec 29, 2020

[ ](../../../blog/posts/announcing-our-first-mining-community-call/)

updates

##  [ Announcing our first mining community call
](../../../blog/posts/announcing-our-first-mining-community-call/)

We are excited to announce our upcoming community call specifically focused on
mining. In this call, we will bring together implementers, contributors,
researchers, prospective miners, and curious minds to engage with one another.

Apr 24, 2019

[ ](../../../blog/posts/meet-the-sr2-slingshot-teams/)

updates

##  [ Meet The SR2 Slingshot Teams ](../../../blog/posts/meet-the-
sr2-slingshot-teams/)

We’re about a week into the Space Race 2 Slingshot competition, and it is off
to an exciting start! So far, 370+ participants have made over 125,000 storage
deals to store valuable data on the Filecoin network, competing for a
potential 500,000 FIL prize pool.

Oct 2, 2020

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You’ve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

