[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ 中文 ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [updates](../../../blog/updates)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

May 17, 2019  

## Announcing the SNARK Challenge

We are excited to announce that Protocol Labs and Filecoin are sponsoring the
SNARK Challenge, an open challenge to speed up zk-SNARK provers. The SNARK
challenge is co-hosted by [Coinlist](https://coinlist.co/),
[Coda](https://codaprotocol.com/), and [Dekrypt
Capital](https://dekrypt.capital/), and co-sponsored by
[Tezos](https://tezos.com/) and the [Zcash Foundation](https://www.zfnd.org/).

Zero-knowledge (zk) proofs are cryptographic primitives that allow one party
(the prover) to prove to a counterparty (the verifier) that it knows certain
pieces of information without having to reveal any bits of that information to
the verifier. [zk-SNARKs](https://z.cash/technology/zksnarks/) are a type of
zero-knowledge proof construction that have become popular in various
blockchain applications, notably to enable private crypto transactions (e.g.
shielded transactions on Zcash) and minimize bloat in block sizes, among other
applications.

At Filecoin, we use zk-SNARKs in our on-chain Proofs-of-Replication and
Proofs-of-SpaceTime. Many of our recent research efforts have focused on
improving and optimizing SNARKs – using SNARK aggregation techniques, new
vector commitment schemes to reduce the costs of Merkle trees in our SNARKs,
and more.

We believe that research in this field is important not only for Filecoin, but
also for many other critical applications. zk-SNARKS have tremendous potential
to scale blockchains and provide privacy in on-chain transactions. The SNARK
Challenge is intended to help us speed up the generation of zk-SNARK proofs
and ultimately move this field of research forward.

### The Challenge

The challenge will be broken up into two events that together span 3 months.
$100K in prizes will be awarded throughout the event. Each event will have
specific challenges aimed at advanced cryptographers and those with experience
in high-performance computing.

**Event 1: Initial Event**

  * Runs from **May 20 to June 3**
  * **$5K** in prizes
  * 3 challenges focused on zk-SNARKs basics

**Event 2: Main Event**

  * Runs from **June 3 to July 15**
  * **$95K** in prizes
  * Multiple challenges focused on speeding up the Groth16 SNARK Prover

And yes, there will be swag.

[Sign up](https://coinlist.co/build/coda) on the Coinlist SNARK Challenge
website to stay up to date with the latest updates. We look forward to seeing
what you come up with!

Separately, but no less importantly, we are constantly looking for new minds
to help us push our research work forward. Please reach out to
[team@filecoin.io](mailto:team@filecoin.io) if you’re interested in working on
SNARK research with us as a collaborator, researcher or developer.

## [Sign up for the SNARK Challenge »](https://coinlist.co/build/coda)

### Related Articles

[View all articles](../../../blog)

[ ](../../../blog/posts/filecoin-zk-snarks-zero-knowledge-but-a-lot-of-zero-
knowledge/)

updates

##  [ Filecoin zk-SNARKs: Zero Knowledge — but a Lot of Zero Knowledge
](../../../blog/posts/filecoin-zk-snarks-zero-knowledge-but-a-lot-of-zero-
knowledge/)

CryptoComputeLab created a beautiful zk-SNARKs for the world minisite,
showcasing that Filecoin is the largest deployed zk-SNARK network to date and
highlighting the key improvements that allowed a deployment of this scale.

Jul 13, 2021

[ ](../../../blog/posts/zero-knowledge-and-the-filecoin-network/)

updates

##  [ Zero Knowledge and the Filecoin Network ](../../../blog/posts/zero-
knowledge-and-the-filecoin-network/)

An overview of how the worlds of zk-SNARKs and decentralized storage come
together on the Filecoin network.

Jul 29, 2021

[ ](../../../blog/posts/participate-in-our-trusted-setup-ceremony/)

updates

##  [ Participate in our trusted setup ceremony
](../../../blog/posts/participate-in-our-trusted-setup-ceremony/)

As you may have seen in our recent update, the Filecoin team is gearing up to
launch our testnet in December 2019 and mainnet in March 2020. Prior to
launch, we need to conduct a secure trusted setup ceremony (read more about
this below). We are seeking volunteers to participate in our trusted setup
ceremony and to help us get Filecoin securely off the ground.

Oct 22, 2019

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You’ve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

