[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ 中文 ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [updates](../../../blog/updates)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Nov 9, 2018  

## Announcing the Filecoin FAQs

We have assembled an exhaustive list of crowd-sourced [Filecoin
FAQs](https://docs.filecoin.io/about-filecoin/faq/) from our active community
as a quick and easy resource for questions about Filecoin. The Filecoin FAQs
provide clear, high quality responses to popular questions from our community.
We believe these FAQs will be useful for a wide range of our audience, whether
already familiar with the Filecoin network or not. Please note the Filecoin
FAQs will likely evolve over time: we anticipate editing, adding, or removing
questions and answers as appropriate. And please keep the questions coming!
Our team is delighted to hear from you at
[team@filecoin.io](mailto:team@filecoin.io).

Filecoin is only as strong as its community, and we cannot thank you enough
for your enthusiasm. We are thrilled you have joined us on the journey to
decentralize data storage and access.

The Filecoin Team  
Protocol Labs

### Related Articles

[View all articles](../../../blog)

[ ](../../../blog/posts/a-guide-to-filecoin-storage-mining/)

updates

##  [ A Guide to Filecoin Storage Mining ](../../../blog/posts/a-guide-to-
filecoin-storage-mining/)

An updated guide to Filecoin storage mining, and discuss some of the recently
announced incentives and opportunities for members of the growing Filecoin
community.

Jul 7, 2020

[ ](../../../blog/posts/june-q-a-summary/)

events

##  [ June Q & A Summary ](../../../blog/posts/june-q-a-summary/)

On June 25, 2020, the Filecoin team hosted an AMA with Juan Benet. Over the
course of an hour, we answered 41 questions, covering topics like testnet
incentives, the most recent roadmap update, and the path to mainnet launch.
During the session we were joined by 968 Filecoin community members from
across the globe. Many thanks to all who participated!

Jul 1, 2020

[ ](../../../blog/posts/march-q-a-thank-you-and-summary/)

Filecoin-Community updates

##  [ March Q&A thank you and summary ](../../../blog/posts/march-q-a-thank-
you-and-summary/)

Thanks to everyone who participated in our March 5 Q&A about the Filecoin
project! We answered more than 100 questions in our 1-hour session (fast and
furious typing!). We fielded questions on topics ranging from hardware
requirements, for mining to our timeline for Testnet Phase 2 and mainnet
launch, to the inner workings of our proofs constructions.

Mar 10, 2020

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You’ve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

