[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ 中文 ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [updates](../../../blog/updates)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Apr 24, 2019  

## Announcing our first mining community call

We are excited to announce our upcoming community call specifically focused on
mining. In this call, we will bring together implementers, contributors,
researchers, prospective miners, and curious minds to engage with one another.
We will provide a brief overview of the Filecoin project, discuss recent
mining-related research and development updates, and answer your questions
about mining on the Filecoin network. The video call will be held on:

**Thursday, May 9th, 2019 at 23:00 UTC (19:00 EST (UTC -4) | 16:00 PST (UTC
-7) | 7:00 CST (UTC +8))**.

[**Please RSVP for the
call**](https://protocol.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_a6oIQearT4SMeRQvYHDjkA)
**, and be sure to add any questions you have.** We will use this form to
augment the agenda and Q&A portions of the call as needed. We will also send
the video call link to those who RSVP on the form.

If you cannot attend this initial Filecoin Mining Community Call, not to
worry! We will record the session and add it to our [Filecoin Community repo
on Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community). Please “Watch” this
repo to stay informed about this call and other future community calls and
events. If you have any questions, please reach out to our team at
[mining@filecoin.org](mailto:mining@filecoin.org) or on the #fil-mining
channel on our [Community
Chat](https://join.slack.com/t/filecoinproject/shared_invite/zt-dj58b7fq-
weyaTEvjHoYF_ENkQHR6Ig).

Thank you again for your continued enthusiasm and support of Filecoin!

The Filecoin Team

Protocol Labs

### Related Articles

[View all articles](../../../blog)

[ ](../../../blog/posts/andrew-cronk-yannick-folla-figment-networks/)

interviews

##  [ Andrew Cronk & Yannick Folla, Figment Networks
](../../../blog/posts/andrew-cronk-yannick-folla-figment-networks/)

Welcome to the eighth installment of the Filecoin Community Highlights series,
which features users and developers building essential tools and services on
the Filecoin network.

Aug 4, 2020

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You’ve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

