[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Welcoming the members of our first Base Camp Accelerator

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Announcing our first Base Camp Accelerator cohort

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/ov_matt-150x150.jpg)

September 2019

Posted by

Matt Law

Board Member

At Outlier Ventures Matt partners with talented founders building the next
generation of internet services working across their investing thesis of the
Convergence of emerging technology with decentralised & distributed computing,
AI, and IoT. Matt is in the investment committee at the firm, and launched
their deep tech accelerator program. Prior to that Matt worked for many years
in marketing, branding and product development, growing a number of
independent companies to scale and profitability....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1278)

This week marks the start of our first Base Camp Accelerator program, what
will be the culmination of several months of work in one sense, and the
beginning of an incredible journey in another in our mission to build the open
data economy. With our new 3 month accelerator program based in London, our
aim is to help our cohort get further, faster with clarity on mission,
positioning, product momentum, and ecosystem contacts the first seed round of
funding.



Posted by Matt Law - September 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/ov_matt-150x150.jpg)

September 2019

Posted by

Matt Law

Board Member

At Outlier Ventures Matt partners with talented founders building the next
generation of internet services working across their investing thesis of the
Convergence of emerging technology with decentralised & distributed computing,
AI, and IoT. Matt is in the investment committee at the firm, and launched
their deep tech accelerator program. Prior to that Matt worked for many years
in marketing, branding and product development, growing a number of
independent companies to scale and profitability....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1278)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/asm-and-ov-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-asm/) [Why we
invested in Altered State Machine (ASM)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-
invested-in-asm/)

April 2022  
Jamie Burke

[ ![OutlierVenturesInvestsinLumerin](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/03/why-we-invested-in-lumerin-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-lumerin/) [Why
we invested in Lumerin](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-
lumerin/)

March 2022  
Jamie Burke

Over the coming weeks we will be leveraging the combined resources of our
tried and tested venture platform of experts, mentors and ecosystem we will
add measurable value where each team needs it most. This isnâ€™t a cookie-cutter
program, but a bespoke solution for accelerating the billion dollar token
networks and transformational web 3.0 businesses of tomorrow.

Read on to see the details of our first cohort.



# DataHop

[http://datahop.network/](http://datahop.network/)

**DataHop Labs is developing the next generation of edge computing networks.**

DataHop is providing a unique connectivity solution that saves energy and a
blockchain-based reward protocol based on proof of useful work.

**Problem**

It is easier to digitally communicate with someone you do not know at the
other end of the planet, rather than with someone sitting next to you. The
ultimate target of the Internet technology, all its supporting protocols and
the applications that have been built on top, was to reduce the distance
between communicating parties that are physically located far from each other.
In doing so, the Internet has increased the distance of communicating parties
within physical proximity to each other. We have not invested enough effort to
build protocols and applications that connect devices locally.

DataHop is a platform that enables privacy-preserving, incentivised content
propagation at the network edge. DataHop takes a different approach and
utilises local D2D communication channels to connect directly, transparently
and seamlessly to the content that users are interested in.

In order to participate in the DataHop Network, users have to share a part of
their mobile phone memory and connectivity opportunities with users in the
vicinity as they move in their daily routine. Users are rewarded based on
their contribution to the network.



# DIA Data

[https://diadata.org/](https://diadata.org/)

**DIA exists to make financial data standardised, open-source and accessible
to everyone.**

We offer a new vision of financial data with an open-source, transparent,
immutable, standardised platform that is accessible to everyone.

Decentralized Information Asset (DIA) is creating an open-source, crowd-driven
platform powered by blockchain technology that enables to supply, share and
use digital financial asset and other financial data.

Our vision is to democratize provision, access and usage of digital financial
asset data, as Wikipedia did in the broader information space for central
encyclopaedias.

DIA is designed for individuals and entities that rely on accurate financial
market data in their decision making, or who seek to gain a trading advantage
from accurate digital financial assets data. This includes individual traders,
financial service businesses, family offices, funds, financial institutions,
and specialised app developers. Incumbent financial information vendors offer
proprietary products without transparency and only little digital financial
asset data. Existing information platforms do not provide externally validated
or enhanced data and their centralized information feeds are not tracked
intelligently to ensure authenticity.



# Redeemeum

**decentralized commerce protocol**

**Connect Web 3 to real world products and customer data.**

[http://www.redeemeum.com/](http://www.redeemeum.com/)

Redeemeum is a universal, Web 3 component for representing products and
services as tradable smart voucher tokens that connect to Web 3 customer data.
Rather than an end-user application; Redeemeum is a set of open sourced
standards, protocols and smart contracts. Redeemeum enables developers to
easily build and monetize applications that combine decentralized finance,
payments and loyalty with real world products and Web 3 customer data.

**Why?**

Our vision: to drive the mass adoption of decentralized finance and commerce
within an open and equitable Web 3 data economy.

"One of the main constraints in using Dai as a transactional currency in the
United States is the highly competitive credit card networks which offer their
users "points" to incentivize network purchases. Having a platform which could
replicate this experience for cryptocurrencies, like Redeemeum, would be a
great tool for Dai adoption."

Greg DiPrisco, Head of Business Development - Maker

**Problem**

Decentralized finance and payments are currently unable to compete with
centralized incumbents because on-chain and off-chain commerce are
disconnected. There is no open, decentralized and self-sovereign way to:

  * exchange on-chain value for off-chain products and services
  * connect smart contracts with off-chain customer and usage data
  * build applications that combine multiple value types

**Solution**

Redeemeum is a universal protocol for representing products and services as
smart voucher NFTs. Redeemeum connects on-chain and off-chain commerce by:

  * Enabling decentralized exchange of on-chain value for off-chain products and services.
  * Connecting smart contracts to crypto- incentivized, Web 3 customer data.
  * Enabling developers to build modular dApps that combine decentralized finance, credit and loyalty with real world products, services and Web 3 customer data.



# Weaver Labs

**The telecoms network of the future: catalytic, decentralised, secure**

[https://weaverlabs.io/](https://weaverlabs.io/)

**Problem**

Innovation in telecommunications infrastructure is constrained by a small
number of mobile network operators controlling the entire value chain. These
limitations have led us to begin the design for new and open protocols in
telecommunications. We are developing a communications library allowing
researchers, developers and others to deploy, develop and freely use the open
source tools.

**Solution**

With the rise of blockchain and itâ€™s zero trust model, we offer an alternative
to traditional network operators as a centrally trusted entry point for
telecommunications networks. We aim to create an application layer in which
individuals can create, contribute and manage basic network elements and at
the same time receive compensation based on their contributions. In order to
facilitate the development of this application layer, we will bring together
softwarised and virtualized 5G technologies, blockchain technologies and
generic open source hardware (i.e. open source radio equipment).

We believe that our solution addresses key weaknesses within existing
communications systems that limit innovation around 5G. Issues which extend to
IoT, ( eg. outdated version software) smart cities and critical networks can
be improved with our open-source and trust-less network.

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

