[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ ‰∏≠Êñá ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [events](../../../blog/events)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Jun 17, 2020  

## Announcing: Filecoin Ignite and HackFS!

## Filecoin Ignite - Learn üìö Build üõ† Launch üöÄ

Filecoin is getting closer to mainnet launch, and the ecosystem is moving at
blazing speed. Filecoin Miners are building out infrastructure at small,
medium and large scales. The testnet just passed 9 PiB. Developers are making
apps, dapps, dev tools, and more. There are thousands of people building
around Filecoin, but so far they have been doing it mostly by themselves. It
is time to get together and cross-pollinate.

We are thrilled to announce [**Filecoin Ignite**](https://ignite.fil.events/),
a series of events gathering the community, to learn, show, and build
together. This is a unique opportunity to dive deep into the tech and share
knowledge with other pioneers. It is a chance to hack on ideas and build
amazing things. It is a spotlight to show the world what you‚Äôve been working
on. And you can do so in one of several events tailored to different
audiences.

We currently have 6 main events lined up. We‚Äôve already announced one:
[SpaceRace](https://filecoin.io/blog/announcing-testnet-incentives/), a world-
wide competition for Filecoin Miners. Today, we‚Äôre announcing the second:
[HackFS](https://hackfs.com/). This is a collaboration with one of our
favorite groups in web3: the fantastic ETHGlobal team.

Many Ignite events will have sizable prizes, for intrepid developers and
miners. We expect the total prize pools to be over 4 Million FIL and 250K USD,
spread out across events.

[![HackFS](https://filecoin.io/vintage/images/blog/fihfs-
hackfs.png)](https://hackfs.com/)

## HackFS - a 30 day virtual hackathon

[HackFS](https://hackfs.com/) is a 30 day virtual hackathon aimed at building
the foundation of the decentralized web. Developers will build dapps, games,
dev tools, DeFi integrations, and other hacks that utilize decentralized
storage. HackFS will be hosted by [ETHGlobal](https://ethglobal.co/) and
[Protocol Labs](https://protocol.ai/), and will have all the hackathon
staples: workshops, mentorship, inspiring talks, AMAs, and prizes!

Come learn all about IPFS, Filecoin, Ethereum, Textile, libp2p, and so much
more in web3. Join the community, meet other hackers around the world, and
hang out with the core developers of these technologies. Attend workshops,
learn best practices, and get your questions answered. Brainstorm ideas, hack
on prototypes, build out your project, and launch it. The ETHGlobal team will
bring their characteristic ‚Äúwhite glove‚Äù approach to developer support to the
event, and the Protocol Labs team will ensure that even developers new to
decentralized storage will be set up for success. At the end of the hackathon:
watch the live demo day with all the submissions, win prizes, and keep
building your awesome projects.

Lots of amazing projects and companies start out as hackathon hacks, including
things like [CryptoKitties](https://www.cryptokitties.co/),
[Pinata](https://pinata.cloud/), [Set Protocol](https://www.setprotocol.com/),
[1inch exchange](https://1inch.exchange/#/),
[InstaDapp](https://instadapp.io/), [Authereum](https://authereum.com/), and
even sharding solutions for blockchains. Many amazing teams meet initially
through hackathons. These are amazing opportunities to learn and try new
things, to build cool things, to form long-lasting relationships, and to form
teams of builders.

ETHGlobal is famous for organizing [ETHWaterloo](http://ethwaterloo.com/),
ETHSanFrancisco, ETHBuenosAires, and more, which have come to be seen as some
of the best hackathons in the world. ETHGlobal recently organized
[HackMoney](https://hackathon.money/), a 30-day virtual hackathon for DeFi,
with hundreds of participants, 100+ hacks, and more. You can explore activity
via [#HackMoney on twitter](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23HackMoney), check
out the full [project showcase](https://hack.ethglobal.co/online/showcase),
and [watch the Finale here](https://www.pscp.tv/w/1mrxmQBOAYLxy). HackFS is
their next act in making amazing virtual hackathon experiences. We are stoked
to see this excellent team bring their magic to the Filecoin and IPFS
communities.

![Events](https://filecoin.io/vintage/images/blog/fihfs-event.jpg)

## Hosting a Filecoin Ignite event

We originally conceived of Ignite as a single hackathon event. But as we
discussed the possibilities with friends, we realized we needed to think
bigger. The community around Filecoin, IPFS, and broader web3 is quite large.
Filecoin alone has many different subgroups. Miners, developers, clients,
businesses, researchers, and token holders are all interested in diving into
many different areas. Filecoin and IPFS have many intersections with other
projects, networks, and communities. Many people around the globe prefer
events tuned to their regions, languages, and timezones. And there are many
talented groups in the community who want to create their own events.

So recognizing all of this potential, we decided to decentralize Ignite: we
turned it into a whole series of events, so that groups could gather and form
events to suit their interests. We currently have 6 main events lined up, and
we think more will emerge. We also hope that a lot of the smaller meetups and
communities might gravitate together and cross-pollinate through this series.

If you had been wanting to hold an event centered on or featuring Filecoin or
IPFS ‚Äì now is the time! We are gathering the community through common
channels, and providing some support. [Reach out and let us
know](https://forms.gle/yhGiSC8rRcAY9YvE8) what you are interested in doing.
We are specially interested in seeing more developer conferences, and learning
workshops for builders.

We can‚Äôt wait for HackFS and the Space Race to start! We look forward to
everything you‚Äôll build.

[![Filecoin Ignite](https://filecoin.io/vintage/images/blog/fihfs-
ignite.png)](https://ignite.fil.events/)

### Related Articles

[View all articles](../../../blog)

[ ](../../../blog/posts/more-ways-to-keep-building-on-the-filecoin-network/)

updates

##  [ More Ways to Keep Building on the Filecoin Network
](../../../blog/posts/more-ways-to-keep-building-on-the-filecoin-network/)

Around the world, thousands of individuals and teams are devoting their
energy, talent, and resources to making Filecoin an important building block
of the internet‚Äôs evolving infrastructure.

Aug 25, 2020

[ ](../../../blog/posts/30-days-130-projects-recognizing-new-ideas-to-power-
web3/)

##  [ 30 Days, 130 Projects: Recognizing New Ideas to Power Web3
](../../../blog/posts/30-days-130-projects-recognizing-new-ideas-to-power-
web3/)

After a month of workshops, talks, AMAs, and heads-down building, 134 teams
submitted final projects for the inaugural HackFS hackathon, unveiling amazing
tools and services to drive the decentralized web.

Aug 19, 2020

[ ](../../../blog/posts/one-more/)

events

##  [ Announcing: Filecoin Ignite and HackFS! ](../../../blog/posts/one-more/)

We are thrilled to announce Filecoin Ignite, a series of events gathering the
community, to learn, show, and build together.

Jun 17, 2020

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You‚Äôve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

