[](https://medium.com/)

[Get unlimited access](https://medium.com/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/cce2829bc152&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderUser&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](https://medium.com/)

[Home](https://medium.com/)

[Notifications](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Jack
Mallers](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*LMTxg8uEKM958_Dv1oG-2w.jpeg)](/?source=post_page
-----cce2829bc152--------------------------------)

[Jack Mallers](/?source=post_page-----
cce2829bc152--------------------------------)

Follow

Aug 20, 2020

·

6 min read

# Announcing Cashback by Strike

Yo. Today I am thrilled to release Cashback by Strike! On January 20th, 2020 I
published “[Announcing Strike by Zap](https://medium.com/@JimmyMow/announcing-
strike-by-zap-4f578c7c8984)” alongside our private BETA. Since then, we have
[announced our partnership with
VISA](https://www.forbes.com/sites/michaeldelcastillo/2020/07/15/visa-partner-
zap-raises-35-million-to-expand-bitcoin-payments/#6bf4ca915792), [released
strike.me](https://medium.com/@JimmyMow/announcing-strike-me-by-
zap-e9bb63750280), [launched our BETA publicly in the
US](https://medium.com/@JimmyMow/announcing-strike-public-beta-325877a79f87),
launched on the App Store/Play Store/Chrome Store, and onboarded thousands of
users. However, as I’ve stated before, we are just getting started and have
much more to come.

Today, we are releasing Cashback by Strike, our first Strike Rewards program.
Cashback is about as conceptually simple as it gets. You simply scan, confirm,
and earn cash that is instantly available in your Strike account.

# The Story

To understand our reasoning behind Cashback by Strike, we have to first
understand who foots the bill for processing payments in today’s world. Today,
when you swipe your credit card, merchants pay, and it’s not cheap either.
Popular credit card companies such as Mastercard, charge anywhere from 1.29% +
$0.05 to 2.64% + $0.10 per transaction. Many businesses, mostly small
businesses or those in underprivileged industries like cannabis, are charged
much more. For example, online payment processing giant Stripe charges 2.9% +
$0.30 per transaction and in industries like cannabis, payment processors
charge upwards of 10% at times. Not cheap.

There was nearly $4 trillion spent using credit cards alone in 2018. The
average credit card processing fee ranges from about 1.3% to 3.4%, and this
doesn’t include the payment processor’s cut. We can safely estimate a lower
bound of $52,000,000,000 in credit card processing fees alone paid by
merchants (likely closer to $140,800,000,000). That’s a lot of money.

My family owns a cannabis business in Colorado. Payment processors in the
cannabis industry charge between 5%-15%, and are known to be unreliable and
unstable. For example, ours was recently down for two months leaving us unable
to process any credit/debit card payments. This leaves businesses vulnerable,
with no control over how to address those vulnerabilities. We desperately
needed a way to process non-cash payments, and preferably would’ve like to
engage with a partner with low processing fees. Luckily for us, we were busy
building exactly that. Strike’s processing fees are as follows: 0.00% + $0.00.
As in zero dollars, zero cents, zero percent. Oh, and it’s catered towards
contactless, non-cash payments.

My parents began accepting payments with Strike and BTCPay Server in December
of 2019. Every time someone paid us with a credit card, we got charged 10%.
Every time someone paid us over Lightning, it was free. As a business, when
our customers paid us over Lightning, they were doing us a favor! They were
using this permissionless, peer to peer, value transfer protocol that allowed
us to accept money from our customers without charge.

The issue was incentivizing users to use something like Strike to pay us.
Credit cards have been around forever. They’re the norm. They’re easy. Not to
mention bitcoin payments are traditionally hard to make. You have to own the
asset, you take on volatility risk, you take on tax consequences, you have to
custody the asset, and so on. With Strike, we made a point to put all of those
concerns behind us. The problem remained, however; how do we incentivize _you_
to use Strike over your credit card?

At my parent’s store, we started to offer 5%-10% discounts on our cannabis
products if the customer paid with Strike. How could we afford that? Well, if
our customer used Strike, we were processing their payment for free. We were
saving 5%-10% as a business when customers used Strike, so we wanted to give
them an incentive for doing so, and historically, cash has worked well as a
motivator.

This created a brilliant network effect. The word was getting spread
throughout Boulder, CO that if you download and use this new app to buy
cannabis, you get a cash reward! We saw mainstream, non-technical users
migrating away from the credit card processing networks and onto the
Bitcoin/Lightning Network. Did they even know they were doing so? Did they
know they were using Bitcoin as a settlement rail? No. Probably not. But they
were.

So, the idea is simple, why wouldn’t we replicate this all over the world? If
you are a merchant out there why wouldn’t you use the Lightning Network as a
settlement rail and reward users who pay you over Lightning? Why pay
processing fees when you don’t have to?

# How It Works

It doesn’t get simpler than Cashback by Strike. As a user, you simply have to:

  * Scan a QR code
  * Confirm the payment
  * Earn your cashback

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/940/1*YrIDhJ9c1xCyxJV59iRQ9Q.png)

In an effort to control the rollout of Cashback, we’ve decided to launch with
four merchants to start and will scale up to several dozens over the coming
weeks.

To start, we have:

  * [BitcoinShirt.co](https://bitcoinshirt.co/), a bitcoin-only online apparel store. **Strike users get 5% Cashback.**
  * [Bitrefill](https://www.bitrefill.com/), offering gift cards for over 1,000 businesses. **Strike users get 5% Cashback.**
  * [CryptoCloaks](https://www.cryptocloaks.com/), a bitcoin-only online shop. **Strike users get 5% Cashback.**
  * [Lightnite](https://lightnite.io/), a Lightning Network powered video game that allows you to spend and earn bitcoin inside of the game. **Strike users get 15% Cashback.**

Here I buy a $50 Uber gift card from Bitrefill and get 5% Cashback. Easy as 1,
2, 3.

Cashback by Strike demo

Over the coming weeks, we will continue to launch with more merchants. You can
find all of the Strike Cashback merchants on [our
website](http://beta.strike.me).

# Going Forward

As I stated above, this is only the beginning. We will onboard more merchants
over the coming weeks. However, the bigger idea here is to create a network
effect with incentives for consumers and merchants to benefit from using
Bitcoin as a settlement rail.

If you’re a business looking to use Bitcoin/Lightning as a settlement rail,
accept USD for no processing fees, and would like to be a part of what we’re
building, you can contact us
[merchants@strike.me](mailto:merchants@strike.me). We are now accepting
merchants to be a part of our private BETA as we look to roll out our merchant
services in the near future. You don’t have to be highly technical, take on
volatility risk, create tax headaches, custody a new digital asset, and so on
to benefit from Bitcoin as a merchant anymore. You don’t have to foot the bill
for the world of commerce and pay large processing fees anymore either. With
Strike, you get the best of both worlds.

Furthermore, are you a business that wants to offer Cashback to consumers? As
a consumer, is there a business you’d like to receive Cashback with Strike
from? Any merchant that would like to be part of our Cashback program can do
just that. Send a note to us at
[cashback@strike.me](mailto:cashback@strike.me) and we will get you integrated
and launched.

Disruption.

# Thanks

Alright y’all, ending it here for now. With Cashback by Strike, everyone wins.
Merchants save on their bottom line, customers get rewarded cash when they
spend. The world of commerce migrates towards settling on a global,
permissionless, peer to peer, value transfer protocol that is interoperable
with wallets and applications from all walks of life.

Strike is now on the App Store and rolling at a scary pace. Bitcoin works.
Lightning works. Strike works. Look out below. We’ll continue releasing
features and updates at a record pace. You can expect on-chain support, Strike
in markets outside the US, our Strike VISA card, Strike merchant services, and
much more over the coming months.

As always, I want to thank you all for your continued support. I love you all
like family and your support gives us the motivation day in and day out to
keep our head down and build. We frequently get support tickets like this:

> Yo,
>
> Just wanted to say I love the app and keep it up Strike team!

It really means the world and goes to show the bond we share as a community.
Keep the feedback coming, we’re always listening. We do what we do for you.

You can contact me [@JackMallers](https://twitter.com/JackMallers) on Twitter
or [zap@jackmallers.com](mailto:zap@jackmallers.com) via email. We now have an
unbelievably kind and talented customer support team that can be reached at
[support@strike.me](mailto:support@strike.me). Feel free to [join our
slack](https://join.slack.com/t/zaphq/shared_invite/enQtMzgyNDA2NDI2Nzg0LWQ1OGMyMWI3YTdmYTQ0YTVmODg4ZmNkYjQ1MzUxNGExMGRmZWEyNTUyOGQzMzZkYTdhODE3NmQxZWZiOGFkYWI)
if you’d like to be more interactive with the Zap community or discuss Strike.

Back to work we go. You ain’t seen nothing yet.

Deuces ✌️🍻

\--

4

\--

\--

4

## [More from Jack Mallers](/?source=post_page-----
cce2829bc152--------------------------------)

Follow

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F17e301c987a4&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fjimmymow.medium.com%2Fannouncing-
cashback-by-strike-
cce2829bc152&newsletterV3=fb26851df6e0&newsletterV3Id=17e301c987a4&user=Jack+Mallers&userId=fb26851df6e0&source=-----cce2829bc152
---------------------subscribe_user-----------)

zap.jackmallers.com

Love podcasts or audiobooks? Learn on the go with our new app.

[Try
Knowable](https://knowable.fyi/?utm_source=medium&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=medium-
post-footer&source=post_page-----cce2829bc152--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![BUSTA](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*nM8d-arj7gacPdSAQRqmdQ.png)](https://bustaofficial.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[BUSTA

](https://bustaofficial.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## BUSTA VERSE WEEKLY UPDATE

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*6L_h6dsbNI7iFjRZJB_C6w.png)](https://bustaofficial.medium.com/busta-
verse-weekly-update-2507ecacbe63?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![BestChange](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*HiYpgKAAUb73_Zg-W0jGVg.png)](https://bestchange.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[BestChange

](https://bestchange.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Cryptanalysts predict an increase in the bitcoin rate while the coin is
oversold

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*bfrtvzhNsmrUKzRdjPGbIQ.png)](https://bestchange.medium.com/cryptanalysts-
predict-an-increase-in-the-bitcoin-rate-while-the-coin-is-
oversold-697ba8d77c95?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Polygon](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*jGa6EsELZlUPWjgPegEmqA.png)](https://polygontech.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Polygon

](https://polygontech.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[The Polygon Blog

](https://medium.com/the-polygon-blog?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Polygon Builder Series vol.6 — Ben and Kila QiDAO

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*nH-
XD0vIx6mDXvv3acp6pw.jpeg)](https://polygontech.medium.com/polygon-builder-
series-vol-6-ben-and-kila-qidao-462666f107e2?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[[![Huacayachief](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*9TUoNvCiq9fiwH7T3qalQw.jpeg)](https://huacayachief.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Huacayachief

](https://huacayachief.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

in

[Alpaca Finance

](https://medium.com/alpaca-finance?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Grazing Range Pool #11 — Welcoming WEX to The Herd!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*KfZNLa9zBNsw92bUSXrnXQ.png)](https://huacayachief.medium.com/grazing-
range-pool-11-welcoming-wex-to-the-
herd-4bb28b0d5d34?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![PrivacySwap](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*X23cBNZfuIpr9pn37QCNiA.png)](https://privacyswap.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[PrivacySwap

](https://privacyswap.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## What is a soft rug, and why should you keep your eye on it?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*da8xQCCtRJ-
KkObn)](https://privacyswap.medium.com/what-is-a-soft-rug-and-why-should-you-
keep-your-eye-on-it-b138779f8f29?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![IMBA-
Exchange](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*kQqJrzhLFGBboTUxMAvifg.png)](https://imba-
exchange.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[IMBA-Exchange

](https://imba-exchange.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[The Capital

](https://medium.com/the-capital?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Trading, Psychology, And The Benefits of Trading Bots.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*8IqrOki34eChLU-
KlStTWQ.png)](https://imba-exchange.medium.com/trading-psychology-and-the-
benefits-of-trading-bots-2c4be45e3ca3?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![David A.
Johnston](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*nWRKmFhOpo1LOm1HxJfsrg.jpeg)](https://djohnstonec.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[David A. Johnston

](https://djohnstonec.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Announcing The Open Savings Initiative on BCH & BTC Networks

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Mz8t9Ut4k0uNaJ5Hd3caFQ.png)](https://djohnstonec.medium.com/announcing-
the-open-savings-initiative-on-bitcoin-cash-bitcoin-
core-2039cd48065?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Arman The
Parman](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*3-784W2VuC60f2pS.jpg)](https://armantheparman.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Arman The Parman

](https://armantheparman.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Arman The Parman’s Bitcoin Articles

](https://armantheparman.medium.com/arman-the-parmans-bitcoin-
articles-9bbc4e46e05?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](https://medium.com/?source=post_page-----
cce2829bc152--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
cce2829bc152--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
cce2829bc152--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
cce2829bc152--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
cce2829bc152--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----cce2829bc152--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----cce2829bc152--------------------------------)

[Get
started](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fjimmymow.medium.com%2Fannouncing-
cashback-by-strike-cce2829bc152&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Jack
Mallers](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*LMTxg8uEKM958_Dv1oG-2w.jpeg)](/)

[

## Jack Mallers

](/)

4.4K Followers

[zap.jackmallers.com](http://zap.jackmallers.com)

Follow

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F17e301c987a4&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fjimmymow.medium.com%2Fannouncing-
cashback-by-strike-
cce2829bc152&newsletterV3=fb26851df6e0&newsletterV3Id=17e301c987a4&user=Jack+Mallers&userId=fb26851df6e0&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![CryptoAI](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dg8Q8mNeieDvWaZSG2zL0A.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@CryptoAIWriter?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------30569650_e6f3_490c_9a7e_635cd3949947-------)

[CryptoAI

](https://medium.com/@CryptoAIWriter?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------30569650_e6f3_490c_9a7e_635cd3949947-------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------30569650_e6f3_490c_9a7e_635cd3949947-------)

## MicroStrategy Subsidiary Closes $205 Million Bitcoin-Backed Loan From
Silvergate to Buy More…

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*cNgmhFNDQJtHT_sm5lWZUw.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@CryptoAIWriter/microstrategy-
subsidiary-closes-205-million-bitcoin-backed-loan-from-silvergate-to-buy-
more-9282feee9a2?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
30569650_e6f3_490c_9a7e_635cd3949947-------)

[[![Truflation](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*hAFjyzQ9r_JI7VyrELxrzQ.jpeg)](https://truflation.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------30569650_e6f3_490c_9a7e_635cd3949947-------)

[Truflation

](https://truflation.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------30569650_e6f3_490c_9a7e_635cd3949947-------)

in

[Truflation

](https://medium.com/truflation?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------30569650_e6f3_490c_9a7e_635cd3949947-------)

## Truflation Oracle Update [March 2022] — Detailed Report

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*smOGIn71vqZVzcedr9juZQ.jpeg)](https://truflation.medium.com/truflation-
oracle-update-march-2022-detailed-report-8ecaa1317475?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------30569650_e6f3_490c_9a7e_635cd3949947-------)

[[![Alexandre
Lores](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*vfBYAjFUeApyDxvwnBuIvA.jpeg)](https://alexandre-
lores1984.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
30569650_e6f3_490c_9a7e_635cd3949947-------)

[Alexandre Lores

](https://alexandre-lores1984.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------30569650_e6f3_490c_9a7e_635cd3949947-------)

in

[CryptoStars

](https://blog.cryptostars.is/?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------30569650_e6f3_490c_9a7e_635cd3949947-------)

## 3 Benefits of Blockchain

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*psFN70D15HyJu985)](https://alexandre-
lores1984.medium.com/3-benefits-of-
blockchain-6a342ac7f99c?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
30569650_e6f3_490c_9a7e_635cd3949947-------)

[[![samir
auwalu](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*O9cI6tJMbvEkBUAb)](https://medium.com/@samirdudugk?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------30569650_e6f3_490c_9a7e_635cd3949947-------)

[samir auwalu

](https://medium.com/@samirdudugk?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------30569650_e6f3_490c_9a7e_635cd3949947-------)

## 4 BEST CRYPTOCURRENCY AND BLOCKCHAIN PROMOTERS

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*nP_2DKYIOGduvOUWfD71Yg.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@samirdudugk/4-best-
cryptocurrency-and-blockchain-promoters-22da42595060?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------30569650_e6f3_490c_9a7e_635cd3949947-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](https://medium.com/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

