[](https://medium.com/)

[Get unlimited access](https://medium.com/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/325877a79f87&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderUser&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](https://medium.com/)

[Home](https://medium.com/)

[Notifications](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Jack
Mallers](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*LMTxg8uEKM958_Dv1oG-2w.jpeg)](/?source=post_page
-----325877a79f87--------------------------------)

[Jack Mallers](/?source=post_page-----
325877a79f87--------------------------------)

Follow

Jul 2, 2020

·

9 min read

# Announcing Strike Public BETA

Yo. Today is the day. And even though much of my post will be about today,
it’s important to quickly address how we got here.
[Strike](http://beta.strike.me) is the direct result of years of Bitcoin +
Lightning development, countless hours of user research, intense product
iteration, and months of BETA testing. The numerous sessions with regulators,
unnumbered conference calls with lawyers, infinite meetings with banking
partners, and many sleepless nights have all led us to today.

Today, [Strike](http://beta.strike.me) is available to download on
[iOS](https://testflight.apple.com/join/nIZtqfqO),
[Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=zapsolutions.strike),
and [Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/zap-
strike/ddlakobiikmpnaeakgbdeodclnmiablf). Strike allows anyone in the world to
interact with the Bitcoin and Lightning Network protocols using only a bank
account and/or debit card. You don’t need a wallet, a node, a seed, channels,
liquidity, fancy swaps, whitepapers, and so on to interact with this new
global digital economy. Simply download, link your bank account, and scan. You
can find our download links and learn more at our updated website at
[beta.strike.me](http://beta.strike.me/).

Our vision for Strike is unornamented and inelastic; we want to build an
application with the ambition to usher in an era of Bitcoin that we believe
can achieve our goal of true mainstream adoption. What does commerce look like
in a world where legacy finance is interoperable with this new global value
transfer protocol known as Bitcoin? A world where a full node and a checking
account speak the same language? A world where a debit card and a BTCPay
server are friends? A world where the line between BTC and USD no longer
exists? We wanted to see for ourselves what that world would look like. Enter
Strike.

#  **Regulatory**

Our first hurdle to overcome in pursuing our goals was to address the age-old
pain point that has plagued Bitcoin for years; KYC/AML. Strike is a regulated
financial product. Because we allow users to interact with both fiat currency
and Bitcoin, we are required to comply with KYC/AML laws. However, the
question we had was, how much KYC/AML is “good enough” and _why_?

When I first started the journey of bringing a mainstream user experience to
Bitcoin, I’ll never forget what it felt like sitting on floor 1,000 of this
highrise, looking over the city of Chicago in my hoodie, as a lawyer explained
to me that none of what I was describing was possible. Maybe it was the
hoodie.

 _I’ve never heard of the “Lightning Network” and all users will have to
submit personal information such as an address, date of birth, SSN, ID photos,
and pictures of themselves. — Suitman lawyer guy_

Listen suitman lawyer guy, I know that’s how things are typically done, but I
refuse to believe that’s how it _has_ to be. The last thing I want is to
introduce a new demographic of users to Bitcoin, only to have them treated as
criminals as soon as they download Strike. There had to be a better way.

So, as our BETA progressed, we started crunching some data. So far in our
private BETA, the average Strike payment size is $27, with thousands of
payments under $10 and even more under $1. If users are frequently making
small transactions, why did they need to submit their address, birthday, SSN,
ID pictures, selfie, and so on?

After countless hours educating regulators, designing different approaches
with various law firms, engineering different onboarding processes, and
designing an experience we stand behind, we found out the answer to our
question was a big fat (surprising) no, we don’t need _all_ of that
information when signing up.

With our public launch, I am unbelievably proud to announce the only
requirement for most users to use Strike is your **name and phone number**.
That is not a typo. You read that correctly. We care about you a lot. We care
about Bitcoin a lot. We were not going to let regulation get in the way of
Bitcoin’s relationship with the world.

Below I demo onboarding onto Strike. A user goes from download to payment in
less than a minute.

Strike Onboarding Demo

Pretty boomer proof if you ask me.

Strike might not be available in your area and we are currently excluding
users from NY, FL, TX, and HI.

#  **Strike.me**

With Strike, a user can seamlessly send and receive digital transactions such
as Lightning payments directly to and from their bank account. In addition,
there is a remarkably cool feature that comes prepackaged with your Strike
account, strike.me.

When you create your Strike account, you automatically get a strike.me profile
at [strike.me/[YOUR_USERNAME]](http://strike.me/jack). strike.me is a social
platform that allows anyone to accept tips, donations, and payments in fiat,
regardless of size, from anywhere in the world. Inside of Strike, you can
navigate to your profile where you can adjust your profile picture, username,
bio, and whether or not your page is public.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*qy1Znj3SqtfZGmTY4P4ARQ.png)

Your [strike.me](http://strike.me) profile is natively interoperable with the
millions of existing Bitcoin users all over the world. It doesn’t matter if
you have CashApp, Coinbase, Samourai Wallet, Wasabi, BlueWallet, Zap, Strike,
etc. We’re all interlinked together through the Bitcoin protocol. With a
strike.me profile, a Twitch streamer in the US can accept a $0.01 tip from a
full node in Australia, free of charge. A non-profit organization can accept
donations instantly, for free, from any of the millions of existing Bitcoin
wallets. Speaking of non-profits…

To demonstrate the power of strike.me, I’ve set up a [Black Lives Matter
strike.me donation page](http://strike.me/blm). Born and raised in Chicago,
the majority of my closest friends are Black. Racial oppression in my country
is a serious issue, and I want to support change where I was born and raised.
What America is going through has exceeded our borders and has become a global
headline.

So, I figured, why not launch a strike.me page to demonstrate the power of an
inherently global value transfer protocol? At
[strike.me/blm](http://strike.me/blm), anyone in the world can scan a QR code
and donate as much as they’d like. Whether you are from the US, Indonesia, a
full node or Strike user, we are all one and the same with Strike. We all
speak the same protocol.

![strike.me/blm](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*0WMVSr7Va09EXiKoeMZvVg.png)

strike.me/blm

As a strike.me user, the donations are auto-converted and received as fiat. I
will be donating all proceeds to the [strike.me/blm](http://strike.me/blm)
profile to [Color Of Change](https://colorofchange.org/), the largest online
racial justice organization in the United States, founded in 2005 after
[Hurricane Katrina](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hurricane_Katrina).

If you feel inclined, I invite anyone and everyone to donate as much as you
please, a penny or a dollar, it all counts. To start, I will be donating
$1,000 on behalf of Zap to kick things off. Politics aside, I hope this
demonstrates the power of a payment stack built to be interoperable with the
world’s first global, digital, value transfer protocol. Free, instant, global,
and easy.

strike.me BLM demo

I will be forwarding the money to Color Of Change as donations come in,
posting the wire receipts on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/JackMallers) as
proof.

#  **Stats**

In our private BETA, we have seen incredible usage across a wide variety of
use cases. Users young and old have used Strike to buy Bitcoin to their own
custody, send remittance payments to family outside of the country, make
micropayments to unlock digital content, [make payments to other Strike
users](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4lCMLOOA2Iw&feature=youtu.be), purchase
goods at brick-and-mortar shops, and make purchases online. Since we began
inviting private BETA testers, Strike has seen consistent usage and month over
month growth.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*0cJQF6xN_UDXWOASbhUhJA.png)

Strike’s monthly activity while in private BETA

The most popular Strike use case to date has been the purchase of Fold gift
cards. We’ve seen $83,644.00 worth of payments as of writing from Strike BETA
testers to Fold alone, as users enjoy rewards when shopping at Fold over
Lightning.

Brick and mortar spending has also seen a surprising amount of volume. The
relationship between merchants and payment processors in the US is tricky.
Take cannabis for example; cannabis companies have a notoriously volatile
relationship with payment processors, with some businesses being blocked from
processing payments completely. A handful of cannabis dispensaries in the US
have begun using Strike infrastructure as merchants, powering contactless
payments approved by local governments. This use case highlights Strike’s
ability to circumvent the issues Cannabis companies have with processing
payments. Strike has become the payment method of choice, and we’ve seen five
figures worth of payments processed over the last few months through Strike.

In aggregate, across our small private BETA we’ve seen over six figures worth
of outgoing payments from Strike users, resulting in our trading algorithms
purchasing over $200,000 worth of Bitcoin to date.

#  **Future**

The community has waited long enough, and the time has finally come. I’m head
over heels excited to see the reaction to Strike’s public BETA. However, you
all know me, this is only the beginning.

Our roadmap is as long as it is robust. Some things to be on the lookout for
are on-chain support, [Strike Debit Cards powered by our newly inked
partnership with
VISA](https://twitter.com/CoinDesk/status/1278720282161827842), Strike Rewards
with partnered merchants, Strike Referrals when you invite your friends and
family, Strike Commerce + merchant tools, and much more rolling out over the
coming weeks and months. Private BETA is over, the cat is out of the bag, and
the snowball has started its journey down the hill. Here we come.

As for the app itself, Strike is still in BETA, and there will be plenty of
bugs and things to learn. We are excited and ready to allow the public to help
us test, but Strike is still very early, and Lightning is still very early.
There may be errors, there may be failed payments, we may go down for
maintenance, and so on, so please be careful and use with caution. If you find
a bug, have any feedback, or need to contact support, you can email
[support@strike.me](http://support@strike.me).

Strike will remain on Testflight for iOS and on Early Access via the Play
Store for Android. We will monitor how the next few weeks go as we look
forward to migrating to the respective App Stores.

#  **Thanks**

Alright, y’all, I’m going to stop there for today. As always, I save this
section for last, minutes before I publish. I’m not only excited but have
never felt so driven and ambitious. I am overwhelmed with emotion, not sure
what else to say.

I personally would like to shoutout the Zap team. It’s one thing to test,
brainstorm, conceptualize, and so on. However, it’s an entirely different ball
game when it comes to putting your head down and executing, through the good
and bad. Writing code, designing interfaces, testing ideas, partnering with
institutions, handling compliance, etc. Dating back to my initial Zap blog
post in August of 2017, what a story this project has. The Zap team cares
about Bitcoin more than anything, and it’s the underlying unifier and driver
in everything we do. I’m so proud to be able to say I spend every day working
with you all and working to change the world at that, truly special. Hats off
[mrfelton](https://twitter.com/mrfelton),
[RockstarDev](https://twitter.com/r0ckstardev),
[otto](https://twitter.com/ottosuess), [raph](https://twitter.com/raph_BTC),
korhal, [Ole](https://twitter.com/ranger__89),
[Namson](https://twitter.com/sohomang), Kataklinger, Petar, and
[Dylan](https://twitter.com/crypteauu). Here’s to more days like the previous
ones. Building, shipping, building, shipping. It’s what we do best.

Lastly, to the community. For those that don’t know, I dropped out of college,
and have spent my entire adult life in the Bitcoin space and with the Bitcoin
community. The relationship I have with you all means the world to me. The
support day in and day out is so special, and one of the main inspirations
behind what I do. We are all interlinked because of our belief that the world
is a better place with Bitcoin in it. I know you all have my back, and I
appreciate that more than you know. I love y’all, for real. I’m forever
indebted to Bitcoin and this community ❤️

You can contact me [@JackMallers](https://twitter.com/JackMallers) on twitter
or [zap@jackmallers.com](mailto:zap@jackmallers.com) via email. If you’d like
to reach Strike support, you can do so at
[support@strike.me](mailto:support@strike.me). Feel free to [join our
slack](https://join.slack.com/t/zaphq/shared_invite/enQtMzgyNDA2NDI2Nzg0LWQ1OGMyMWI3YTdmYTQ0YTVmODg4ZmNkYjQ1MzUxNGExMGRmZWEyNTUyOGQzMzZkYTdhODE3NmQxZWZiOGFkYWI)
if you’d like to ask questions and hang out on the ol’ interwebs. I’ve got so
much more coming, it’s not even funny. Don’t blink.

One last reminder, you can download Strike on
[iOS](https://testflight.apple.com/join/nIZtqfqO),
[Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=zapsolutions.strike),
and [Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/zap-
strike/ddlakobiikmpnaeakgbdeodclnmiablf) today. Enjoy 😃

Be easy, family. Catch you on the flip side 👊 🍻

\--

13

\--

\--

13

## [More from Jack Mallers](/?source=post_page-----
325877a79f87--------------------------------)

Follow

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F17e301c987a4&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fjimmymow.medium.com%2Fannouncing-
strike-public-
beta-325877a79f87&newsletterV3=fb26851df6e0&newsletterV3Id=17e301c987a4&user=Jack+Mallers&userId=fb26851df6e0&source=-----325877a79f87
---------------------subscribe_user-----------)

zap.jackmallers.com

Love podcasts or audiobooks? Learn on the go with our new app.

[Try
Knowable](https://knowable.fyi/?utm_source=medium&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=medium-
post-footer&source=post_page-----325877a79f87--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Chung
Dao](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Ovk00QAEpS4Rls8sxoJWug.jpeg)](https://chung-
dao.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[Chung Dao

](https://chung-dao.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

in

[Oraichain

](https://blog.orai.io/?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Oraichain Tokenomics V3, 73% token burn 🔥 and key updates

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*T7vhuBRppgwmmbi-)](https://chung-
dao.medium.com/oraichain-tokenomics-v3-73-token-burn-and-key-
updates-4e99d1972bcf?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Ronald
Stoner](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*5tzw2hrPWopgeGDeg84qUQ.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@forwardsecrecy?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Ronald Stoner

](https://medium.com/@forwardsecrecy?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## How I Hacked My Way Into A Secret Society

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*GomLqHl4e6yfRaLkExOSzw.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@forwardsecrecy/how-
i-hacked-my-way-into-a-secret-society-80cc8bc8bf72?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[[![Venus
Protocol](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*slDjAaeXJoCavaB4qiUADw.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@venus-
protocol?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

[Venus Protocol

](https://medium.com/@venus-protocol?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[Venus Protocol

](https://blog.venus.io/?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Venus Protocol — Main Network Launched

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Ivl4_8DIxmaLjMrhikvoEQ.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@venus-
protocol/venus-protocol-main-network-
launched-52ea9929091f?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![PureFi
Writer](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*eDwMN9Exxkejpdn8O5y3Kw.png)](https://purefi-
protocol.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[PureFi Writer

](https://purefi-protocol.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

in

[PureFi

](https://blog.purefi.io/?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## LocalTrade x PureFi AMA Recap

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*vhe_oNrel-c-
XUNN0vMOew.png)](https://purefi-protocol.medium.com/localtrade-x-purefi-ama-
recap-2fd96aa810e7?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Butterflyswap
Protocol🦋](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*TYghRTWp_JouV_UanzpE4w.png)](https://butterflyswap.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Butterflyswap Protocol🦋

](https://butterflyswap.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Announcing the FAIRY (FAIRY) project Airdrop for Butterflyswap community
and listings on…

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*TYghRTWp_JouV_UanzpE4w.png)](https://butterflyswap.medium.com/announcing-
the-fairy-fairy-project-airdrop-for-butterflyswap-community-and-listings-
on-66966dc86249?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![BestChange](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*HiYpgKAAUb73_Zg-W0jGVg.png)](https://bestchange.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[BestChange

](https://bestchange.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## The Central Bank of Russia will launch a digital ruble, but will not peg it
to cryptocurrencies

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*9AcGoohdwgPXDYkFR5Tr2g.jpeg)](https://bestchange.medium.com/the-
central-bank-of-russia-will-launch-a-digital-ruble-but-will-not-peg-it-to-
cryptocurrencies-7c9af954f888?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Kai
Space](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*WqwLzYWmIkziubtazyBsZA.jpeg)](https://kaispace.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Kai Space

](https://kaispace.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Curve Finance

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*0kydTKsnErwTNdzAfiJE1Q.jpeg)](https://kaispace.medium.com/curve-
finance-f0433d8dd2bb?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![CA
Capital](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*8rTUHrqmixHUcjg1tkZwXA.png)](https://cacapital.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[CA Capital

](https://cacapital.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## AMA With DeHive|| Apr-8–2021

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*AJy_nbPDpE8ygR6rVGFG9A.jpeg)](https://cacapital.medium.com/ama-
with-dehive-apr-8-2021-dfdbafd8ebdb?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](https://medium.com/?source=post_page-----
325877a79f87--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
325877a79f87--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
325877a79f87--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
325877a79f87--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
325877a79f87--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----325877a79f87--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----325877a79f87--------------------------------)

[Get
started](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fjimmymow.medium.com%2Fannouncing-
strike-public-beta-325877a79f87&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Jack
Mallers](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*LMTxg8uEKM958_Dv1oG-2w.jpeg)](/)

[

## Jack Mallers

](/)

4.4K Followers

[zap.jackmallers.com](http://zap.jackmallers.com)

Follow

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F17e301c987a4&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fjimmymow.medium.com%2Fannouncing-
strike-public-
beta-325877a79f87&newsletterV3=fb26851df6e0&newsletterV3Id=17e301c987a4&user=Jack+Mallers&userId=fb26851df6e0&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![lbayas](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*7gL_QeHJLifQ638OIL4k0A.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@lbayas?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------5c686e51_6e72_48cc_bce6_e9b27de9dbaf-------)

[lbayas

](https://medium.com/@lbayas?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------5c686e51_6e72_48cc_bce6_e9b27de9dbaf-------)

in

[Cryptograf

](https://medium.com/cryptograf?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------5c686e51_6e72_48cc_bce6_e9b27de9dbaf-------)

## Origins

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*TD7m6bBOIF9K-rNC.png)](https://medium.com/@lbayas/origins-a8dd24222c16?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------5c686e51_6e72_48cc_bce6_e9b27de9dbaf-------)

[[![Matrix Labs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*0qVqljB-
eVZQltCob9IK4A.png)](https://matrixlabs.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------5c686e51_6e72_48cc_bce6_e9b27de9dbaf-------)

[Matrix Labs

](https://matrixlabs.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------5c686e51_6e72_48cc_bce6_e9b27de9dbaf-------)

## Matrix Labs Monthly Update (April 2022)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*466_OdiRxtICXOauy-
dDLA.png)](https://matrixlabs.medium.com/matrix-labs-monthly-update-
april-2022-c70373f43c3d?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
5c686e51_6e72_48cc_bce6_e9b27de9dbaf-------)

[[![RioDeFi](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*uWS07djLXNLN1RCRIJ90tA.png)](https://riodefiofficial.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------5c686e51_6e72_48cc_bce6_e9b27de9dbaf-------)

[RioDeFi

](https://riodefiofficial.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------5c686e51_6e72_48cc_bce6_e9b27de9dbaf-------)

## How RioChain follows the upgrade of Substrate FRAME

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*hm7_1UgD5E1AZI-
yFXU6LQ.png)](https://riodefiofficial.medium.com/how-riochain-follows-the-
upgrade-of-substrate-frame-c7b24a267acf?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------5c686e51_6e72_48cc_bce6_e9b27de9dbaf-------)

[[![GG
Dapp](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*r6t_hjH1LaFunsddbGYxVA.png)](https://ggdapp.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------5c686e51_6e72_48cc_bce6_e9b27de9dbaf-------)

[GG Dapp

](https://ggdapp.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------5c686e51_6e72_48cc_bce6_e9b27de9dbaf-------)

## Move GGTK to Polygon and stake it!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*x4hzDUM81x7NyHxgcOUsDg.jpeg)](https://ggdapp.medium.com/move-
ggtk-to-polygon-and-stake-it-9a0cba1a2032?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------5c686e51_6e72_48cc_bce6_e9b27de9dbaf-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](https://medium.com/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

