[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Announcing Base Camp Berlin, Summer 2020

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Announcing Base Camp Berlin, Summer 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/ov_matt-150x150.jpg)

February 2020

Posted by

Matt Law

Board Member

At Outlier Ventures Matt partners with talented founders building the next
generation of internet services working across their investing thesis of the
Convergence of emerging technology with decentralised & distributed computing,
AI, and IoT. Matt is in the investment committee at the firm, and launched
their deep tech accelerator program. Prior to that Matt worked for many years
in marketing, branding and product development, growing a number of
independent companies to scale and profitability....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1278)

### Berlin will be the home of our second Base Camp program after London and
we will be running our first accelerator cohort there in summer 2020.

Posted by Matt Law - February 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/ov_matt-150x150.jpg)

February 2020

Posted by

Matt Law

Board Member

At Outlier Ventures Matt partners with talented founders building the next
generation of internet services working across their investing thesis of the
Convergence of emerging technology with decentralised & distributed computing,
AI, and IoT. Matt is in the investment committee at the firm, and launched
their deep tech accelerator program. Prior to that Matt worked for many years
in marketing, branding and product development, growing a number of
independent companies to scale and profitability....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1278)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/asm-and-ov-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-asm/) [Why we
invested in Altered State Machine (ASM)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-
invested-in-asm/)

April 2022  
Jamie Burke

[ ![OutlierVenturesInvestsinLumerin](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/03/why-we-invested-in-lumerin-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-lumerin/) [Why
we invested in Lumerin](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-
lumerin/)

March 2022  
Jamie Burke

As you may have seen recently, Outlier Ventures is kicking off the second
month of 2020 with some updates.[ You may have read Jamie’s recent post
clarifying our mission for the coming years, We are an
accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/we-are-an-accelerator/) we are excited
today announce some developments in that journey.

Next month, we are kicking off the second London program running from March to
May, and today we are glad to announce we are expanding outside of the UK.

Some great things are lying ahead for 2020.

Last year in October we were proud to bring together the ecosystem and
representatives from the Convergence Stack at Diffusion 2019, and as we have
built connections with the ecosystem over the past years we have come to
realise the vital importance of supporting the community of developers in the
city.

As such, Berlin will be the home of our second Base Camp program after London
and we will be running our first accelerator cohort there in summer 2020.



**Applications are open today until March 31st**

We're opening the
[applications](https://www.f6s.com/outlierventuresbasecampberlin1) this week,
so please consider it if you are building decentralised tech project in
Berlin, and if not you directly, we would appreciate it if you could share
this link with anybody around you will find the program useful.

We’re running the applications until the end of March although we will be
reviewing on a rolling basis and looking to reach out to successful candidates
shortly after the deadline. The sooner you get on our radar, the better.

To maximise your chances with the application, be sure to read our
[application guide](https://outlierventures.io/research/base-camp-application-
guide/).



**What is Base Camp**

**Program overview**

Base Camp is a[ 12-week program](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp) where
we provide initial capital, office space with the Outlier Ventures team in
Berlin, hub services, and a bespoke program for each team with a variety of
mentors.

  * 3 month accelerator program based in Berlin
  * €40k immediate funding for 6% equity/tokens
  * Up to €230k total funding available per team
  * Office space, legal and back-office support
  * World-beating ecosystem of investment, enterprise and tech partners



**Cohort focus**

We’re targeting a cohort of 6 to 8 companies building in decentralized tech in
the convergence field, and as in previous cohorts, we have some particular
interest areas, including, but not exclusively limited to:

Machine to machine

The web is moving from one designed for human information sharing to an
operating system to support the machine economy. We are interested in concepts
addressing automation and the “industrial internet/Industry 4.0”, and in
particular how decentralized software can enable new forms of economic
activity. For instance: smart cities, manufacturing, energy services, the
smart home, and the automated sharing economy.

Fintech and DeFi

Much of the innovation in financial services is occurring in the new “open
data” paradigm through open banking, we see decentralised finance (Defi) as a
promising sandbox for future routes to market and experimentation. Teams
developing businesses and networks to connect the decentralised finance and
the existing financial infrastructure are of particular interest.

Transport and Logistics

After being in stasis for decades, the transport and logistics industry is in
flux. Players are trying to figure out the right position in the value chain
as a new and integrated mobility value ecosystem emerges, bringing modes of
public, private and commercial transport together. Decentralised software can
be valuable in the complex and global logistics supply chain offering
provenance, tracking and more efficient resource utilisation across the
market.

Identity

Today the paradigm for proving your identity relies on the sharing of paper
documents in an unsecure way. Companies also take on risk in having to manage
and maintain securely personally identifiable information. Far from “data
being the new oil” it may be that data is more like uranium. We are interested
in supporting founders working on helping users take back control of their
identity, reputation and data and how this relates to the existing regulation
around KYC/AML as well as improving tax and audit functionality.

Networking

Telecommunications networks are heavily reliant on a highly concentrated
market structure that favours incumbents. Software-defined networking (SDN)
and network function virtualization (NFV) are making networks more flexible
and configurable but the roll-out has been limited because of the market
structure. We want to support teams working in the open-source hardware (OSH)
and software (OSS) space bringing decentralized software, privacy-guarantees
and strong cryptographically to telco networks networks.



If you are working on a concept in this space, be sure to [apply for Base Camp
Berlin](https://www.f6s.com/outlierventuresbasecampberlin1)



**From our thesis to OUR thesis**

The goal of our accelerator is to help each startup get further, faster, with
clarity on the mission, positioning, product momentum and ecosystem contacts.

We are now directly inviting our network to provide input into the design and
thesis of our next cohorts. As such we are recruiting sponsors to share in the
commercial upside through co-branded programs, including the ability to
directly inform the startup selection process and city roll-out. If you are a
dedicated blockchain fund, tech VC or a CVC looking for access to the crypto
industry and wish to become a strategic sponsor or get us aligned with your
thesis, get in touch.

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

