[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ 中文 ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [updates](../../../blog/updates)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Jul 19, 2017  

## Announcing the Filecoin token sale and upgraded whitepaper

**Update** : We’ve been overwhelmed with the positive response to our
announcements these past few days! We greatly appreciate all the feedback and
advice we’ve received from our communities and we’re incorporating this into
our next announcements. We’ll be releasing a detailed update soon including
more on the upcoming sale. Stay tuned here and on our Twitter accounts:
[Protocol Labs](https://twitter.com/protocollabs)
[Filecoin](https://twitter.com/MineFilecoin)

Over the past several months Protocol Labs has been hard at work across a
spectrum of projects that culminate in our announcements today:

The **Filecoin Token Sale will begin on July 27** at 7pm GMT. The sale will
take place on CoinList and is open for registration and pre-funding now.

Additionally, we’re also announcing a significantly upgraded version of the
Filecoin protocol and whitepaper, [now live on the new Filecoin
website](https://filecoin.io/).

## The New Filecoin Whitepaper

[![](https://filecoin.io/vintage/images/blog/whitepaper.jpg)](https://filecoin.io/vintage/filecoin.pdf)

In the upgraded whitepaper we’ve reached significant new research
breakthroughs that will make Filecoin an extremely competitive, reliable, and
scalable storage network. More specifically, we’re releasing two new
Cryptographic Proofs: Proof-of-Spacetime (PoSt) and Proof-of-Replication
(PoRep). Among many things these advancements create a completely
decentralized storage market, assure files are secure and robust, and allow
Filecoin miners to earn filecoin for the actual storage of files, not for
useless proofs of work.

Over the coming days we’ll be diving into these new innovations and their
impact on the future of distributed and decentralized storage. Stay tuned
here!

## Token Sale

[![](https://filecoin.io/vintage/images/blog/coinlist-
filecoin.jpg)](https://coinlist.co/)

A successful Filecoin network can make a significant impact on the way data is
stored globally, but developing and growing such a network is no easy feat and
will take significant funding. To accomplish this we will be selling a small
fraction of the Filecoin network to investors and early-supporters via the
Simple Agreement for Future Tokens (‘SAFT’).

The sale will take place on Thursday, July 27th on
[CoinList](https://coinlist.co/) and will commence at 7pm GMT (that’s 3pm
Eastern time, 12pm Pacific time). We built CoinList along with our partner
AngelList to help solve so many of the issues that arise for each and every
token creator holding token sales. Filecoin will be the first sale to be held
on CoinList and we’re excited to show it to you.

Protocol Labs is an open-source company to our core and building open and
inclusive ecosystems is something we take great pride in. With this in mind it
may come as a surprise to hear that the Filecoin pre-sale next Thursday will
be limited to accredited investors (individuals and entities that meet certain
income and/or asset requirements). We’ve worked tirelessly over the past
months to come up with a sale structure that is as inclusive as possible,
however the Filecoin network is still in its early stages and with that comes
some unavoidable requirements that we must abide by. Though this can be
frustrating, it’s important to note there will still be plenty of
opportunities for any and everyone to get involved, contribute, and benefit
from the growth of the Filecoin network over time. Most immediately, if you’re
interested in getting involved with the Filecoin network from day one please
sign up to join our [Early Miner
Program](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfdFpWhJj8OIGA2iXrT3bnLgVK9bgR_1iLMPdAcXLxr_1d-pw/viewform?c=0&w=1).

We’ll be posting more details on the token sale here this Friday, July 21st.
In the meantime if you’re interested in investing, we strongly suggest you
head over to [CoinList](https://coinlist.co/) to sign-up and complete the
accreditation process to make sure you’re ready to invest when the sale opens.

We have a deep gratitude for all those that have helped us get this far and
we’re incredibly excited to keep growing both the Filecoin and IPFS
communities. Though we and our communities have already done several things
we’re immensely proud of we’re even more excited at the prospect of what’s to
come. Join us.

For updates on the Filecoin network, including sale updates, please follow us
on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/minefilecoin).

### Related Articles

[View all articles](../../../blog)

[ ](../../../blog/posts/token-sale-completed/)

updates

##  [ Token Sale Completed ](../../../blog/posts/token-sale-completed/)

The Filecoin Sale completed on Sep 7th, 2017, at 19:00 UTC. The sale was a
resounding success!

Sep 13, 2017

[ ](../../../blog/posts/more-filecoin-token-sale-details-7-days-away/)

updates

##  [ More Filecoin Token Sale Details — 7 days away!
](../../../blog/posts/more-filecoin-token-sale-details-7-days-away/)

First off, I want to thank our amazing community for being so creative, and so
overwhelmingly supportive in this time.

Jul 31, 2017

[ ](../../../blog/posts/understanding-filecoin-circulating-supply/)

##  [ Understanding Filecoin Circulating Supply
](../../../blog/posts/understanding-filecoin-circulating-supply/)

This blog post aims to unpack how Filecoin tokens enter circulating supply,
provide more insights on how various stakeholders take part in its economy,
and shed light on how one should approach and think about Filecoin token
economics.

Dec 10, 2020

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You’ve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

