[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ 中文 ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [updates](../../../blog/updates)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Dec 10, 2018  

## Anti-fraud statement for our communities in China & Hong Kong

**Community Caution** : The Protocol Labs, IPFS and Filecoin teams are
thrilled about the activity coming from communities around the world,
including China and Hong Kong. Over the past year, we’ve enjoyed receiving
open-source contributions from several community volunteers across China and
Hong Kong. We’ve been happy about the many educational events, webcasts,
meetups, articles about our projects, and more.

However, we have been warned of unsanctioned individuals and organizations
that wrongly claimed to be participating in miner testing for a Filecoin
‘testnet’. **We are directly warning our community in China and Hong Kong that
these claims are false. We do not yet have a Filecoin testnet program, and we
have not yet been working with any miners.** Any information or updates
related to a Filecoin testnet will be published on the Filecoin official
[blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/).

Further, Protocol Labs, IPFS, and Filecoin are currently not involved in any
partnerships, sponsorships, joint venture, or endorsement agreements with any
partners in China or Hong Kong. To date, Protocol Labs, IPFS, and Filecoin
have not partnered with any community members, miners, miner machine
manufacturers, exchanges, wallets, software developers, technology leaders or
technology evangelists in China or Hong Kong. **We strongly recommend to avoid
anyone that claims to be commercially or officially affiliated with our teams
in those areas at this time.**

We do sometimes correspond with volunteer open-source community members, but
these relationships are informal. Any and all information or announcements
related to future partnerships, affiliations, sponsorships, joint ventures,
endorsement agreements, or a Filecoin testnet will be published on the
Filecoin official [blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/). **We do not endorse any
information published about Protocol Labs, IPFS, or Filecoin on other media or
social channels. Please only look to our official websites and blogs for**
[**Protocol Labs**](https://protocol.ai/blog/) **,**
[**IPFS**](https://blog.ipfs.io/) **, and**
[**Filecoin**](https://filecoin.io/blog/) **for information about our
projects.**

Thank you for your continued support.

Protocol Labs  
Filecoin Team

### Related Articles

[View all articles](../../../blog)

[ ](../../../blog/posts/filecoin-2018-q3-q4-update/)

updates

##  [ Filecoin 2018 Q3 & Q4 Update: Development and Research Repos, Roadmap
Update, Development Update, and More
](../../../blog/posts/filecoin-2018-q3-q4-update/)

Good news! After many months building things privately, we are ready to open
up a number of codebases and community forums. This is right on schedule as
predicted in our Project Roadmap and last update. Read our announcement blog
post for more.

Feb 14, 2019

[ ](../../../blog/posts/filecoin-2019-q2-q3-update/)

updates

##  [ Filecoin 2019 Q2 & Q3 Update: Testnet & Mainnet Launches, Highlights
from 2019, Roadmap Update, and More
](../../../blog/posts/filecoin-2019-q2-q3-update/)

The most important news in this update is that we’re getting very close to
launching the network. We are delayed from our prior estimates, but – as you
will read below – we have made tremendous progress on all fronts!

Sep 24, 2019

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You’ve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

