[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_96,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F1b91c83f-043e-4f2f-91f0-8175edb8f36e_256x256.png)](https://augur.substack.com)

# [Augur Weekly](https://augur.substack.com)

SubscribeSign in

Share this post

Augur Weekly - How to Get a Head Start in the Primary Markets

augur.substack.com

Copy link

Twitter

Facebook

Email

# Augur Weekly - How to Get a Head Start in the Primary Markets

### A Look at the Week in Political Betting, Augur News, and More

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_90,h_90,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F59ef0656-8dbe-45a2-b872-26552f58b851_512x512.jpeg)](https://substack.com/profile/4407099-augur)

|

[Augur](https://substack.com/profile/4407099-augur)

| Jan 3, 2020  
---  
  
[Comment](https://augur.substack.com/p/augur-weekly-how-to-get-a-head-
start/comments)

[Share](javascript:void\(0\))  
  
* * *

 _Augur Weekly posts are public. If someone you know might like this content,
please share it!_

[ Share](https://augur.substack.com/p/augur-weekly-how-to-get-a-head-
start?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email&utm_content=share&action=share)

* * *

> ####  **`Election Betting Roundup`**

  
 _Happy New Year!  
  
Today’s newsletter is a guest post by Millenerian
([@ratflatblog](https://twitter.com/RatFlatBlog)), originally published on his
[blog](https://ratflatblog.wordpress.com/2019/12/28/biden-and-bernie-surge-in-
predictits-2020-odds/), Rat Flat. Go give him a follow for the best in
geographic visualizations of betting odds._

* * *

The past month has been kind to the candidacies of former Vice President Joe
Biden and Senator Bernie Sanders, at least according to the gamblers on the
political prediction website [PredictIt.org](http://predictit.org/). Last time
I looked at PredictIt’s odds for the 2020 primaries and caucuses [Mayor Pete
Buttigieg led in Iowa and Senator Elizabeth Warren was favored in 3 North-East
states.](https://ratflatblog.wordpress.com/2019/11/29/lots-of-uncertainty-in-
predictits-odds-for-the-2020-primaries/) Since then both Buttigieg and
Warren’s odds have dropped while Biden and Sanders’ odds have risen nearly
across the board. As can be seen in the map below, Biden and Sanders now are
favored in every state except Massachusetts, the home-state of Senator
Elizabeth Warren. Note that several states with very late primaries do not yet
have PredictIt.org markets set up yet, for example Montana which does not vote
until June 2, 2020.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ffc15f426-01d3-4b11-af71-0be18eb89366_1024x622.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ffc15f426-01d3-4b11-af71-0be18eb89366_1024x622.png)

Joe Biden’s polling has been remarkably stable, and many political
commentators felt he exceeded expectations in the last Democratic debate.
Polls have shown him with solid support among black voters and working-class
white voters, which may explain why his odds are above 60% in most southern
states. Biden also shows strength in rust-belt states like Pennsylvania and
Ohio, as well as South-Western states with large Latino populations such as
Arizona and Nevada. His biggest vulnerability is his weak odds in the early
voting states of Iowa and New Hampshire. He is only at 15% odds to win in each
state, putting him behind both Sanders and Buttigieg. However, bettors seem to
believe he can survive losses in these first two states, as he is a narrow
favorite in Nevada, which is the third state to vote, and a heavy favorite in
the final of the four early voting states, South Carolina.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff5856f5e-694c-4d78-9e03-6fa33061da6d_1024x622.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff5856f5e-694c-4d78-9e03-6fa33061da6d_1024x622.png)

Since November Biden has seen increases in his probability to win in every
state except Vermont and Connecticut. Most promising for him are the signs of
increasing strength in large, diverse, liberal states such as Illinois and New
York, where he is now favored to win after being viewed as an under-dog to
Sanders in November. More troubling for him is that his odds of winning have
not increased much in Iowa, New Hampshire, and Nevada, with only ~5% increases
in those early states. Losing both Iowa and New Hamsphire and then sweeping to
victory in later states would be a fairly unique path to the nomination, but
the bettors have faith in Joe at this point in the game.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F1e44b11a-156e-4521-961e-55a8c80aa639_1024x622.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F1e44b11a-156e-4521-961e-55a8c80aa639_1024x622.png)

Senator Bernie Sanders has also had remarkably stable polling and very strong
fundraising, having bounced back after the scare of his October heart attack.
His strength is concentrated in three regions: the North-East, the Upper
Midwest, and the Pacific/Rocky Mountain West. He is solidly favored in New
Hampshire, is a slight favorite in Iowa, and closely trails Biden’s odds in
Nevada. However, he has very low odds in South Carolina, and this extends
throughout the rest of the Southern United States, with the exception of
Oklahoma and Missouri where he is more competitive.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fd95f94e2-067c-4c86-b28a-237f08ed5d52_1024x622.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fd95f94e2-067c-4c86-b28a-237f08ed5d52_1024x622.png)

Since November Sanders’ odds have increased in all but five states. His
biggest increases have been in his strongest regions, with large jumps in
states he won in 2016 like Maine, Minnesota, and Utah. He has seen smaller
gains in the South and Rust-Belt, and has seen his odds drop in Arizona,
Florida, Georgia, Illinois, and Pennsylvania. In these states increased
confidence in Biden has eaten into Sanders’ odds. If he is going to win the
nomination he will need to prove he can win in large diverse states, luckily
for him he has gained ground in California, the largest prize in terms of
delegates.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F6a73a08b-cbb3-45f9-a510-fcb6fc20cbfa_1024x622.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F6a73a08b-cbb3-45f9-a510-fcb6fc20cbfa_1024x622.png)

Mayor Pete Buttigieg still shows strength in the first state to vote, Iowa,
but after that he is viewed as a long-shot in every state. PredictIt sees his
best odds outside Iowa in New Hampshire, as well as other eastern states like
Rhode Island, Maryland, and Ohio, along with a few western states such as
Hawaii, Alaska, and Arizona. However, even in these states his odds rarely get
very far above 10%. His weakest region is the South, where he is under 10%
odds to win in every state but Florida.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff9921aab-2d8b-47ce-a55e-9f13760e157e_1024x622.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff9921aab-2d8b-47ce-a55e-9f13760e157e_1024x622.png)

In November Buttigieg was riding high, but since then his polling has dipped
and he has come under withering attacks from rival campaigns. His odds have
dropped across the board, but most damaging are his 10% drop in Iowa and New
Hampshire, which has placed him firmly in second-place in those states behind
Senator Sanders.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F6f670806-aa85-480d-8e79-ec9fab4e06b0_1024x622.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F6f670806-aa85-480d-8e79-ec9fab4e06b0_1024x622.png)

Senator Elizabeth Warren has seen her polling drop significantly since
November, which has sapped her strength across the country in PredictIt
markets. Her best areas are still the North-East and the West, but she is now
below 15% odds in every state but her home-state of Massachusetts. Her weakest
areas are in the South and the Rust Belt, where her strongest demographic,
college-educated white voters, make up a smaller share of the Democratic
primary electorate.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F4580dc6e-1d95-4de8-9b3f-b04e28f215c4_1024x622.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F4580dc6e-1d95-4de8-9b3f-b04e28f215c4_1024x622.png)

Warren’s odds have dropped in every state across the board, with the exception
of Alaska where she saw a small increase. The biggest decreases have come in
states with more liberal democratic primary electorates like Maine, Wisconsin,
Colorado, and Washington. These are states that Bernie Sanders won in 2016,
and her odds have dropped here while his have risen steeply.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fbefbb285-7b77-40e6-9613-e429e3c0bb6a_1024x622.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fbefbb285-7b77-40e6-9613-e429e3c0bb6a_1024x622.png)

So overall, according to PredictIt the shape of the 2020 Democratic Primary is
increasingly looking like a head-to-head battle between Joe Biden and Bernie
Sanders. Sanders is favored in the early states of Iowa and New Hampshire, but
Biden is favored in Nevada and South Carolina along with the South, the Rust
Belt, and big states like Illinois and New York. If PredictIt is right, this
would suggest that Biden is the most likely nominee, unless Bernie can ride
the momentum from those early states to win over diverse liberal states like
New York and Illinois that he lost to Hillary Clinton in 2016.

Personally, my own view is that the race is more wide-open than what is
suggested by PredictIt’s markets. Biden and Sanders have had stable polling,
but neither have had a large surge in support as Warren and Buttigieg have
faded. This suggests there are still many voters who are undecided, and could
shift back to Warren or Buttigieg if they were to do well in the early states.
Warren and Buttigieg still have strong fundraising, and supposedly have the
strongest organizations in Iowa, which is particularly important as it is a
caucus state.

My next update will be in late January of 2020, just before the Iowa caucuses.
It will be very interesting to see if PredictIt still shows a battle between
Biden and Sanders, or if the odds have shifted back towards other candidates.

* * *

As a reminder, come Q1 2020,  **[Augur](https://www.augur.net/) will be the
only platform for political betting with no limits, the lowest fees, and
unbeatable odds.**

To receive updates on Augur including this newsletter, sign up below:

 **Subscribe**

 _Further Reading:_

  * [Don’t Expect Too Many Polls](https://blog.politicalalertengine.com/dont-expect-too-many-polls) \- _Political Alert Engine_

  *  _[StarSpangledGamblers](https://starspangledgamblers.com/)_

  *  _[Augur Edge](https://us12.campaign-archive.com/?u=221fdddb0d3222d5874dbb607&id=7834904201)_

* * *

> ####  **Around the Ecosystem**

  * [Augur App v1.16.6](https://github.com/AugurProject/augur-app/releases)

  * [Defi Dive: Augur](https://defipulse.com/blog/defi-dive-augur-a-decentralized-oracle-and-prediction-market-platform/)

  * [Augur’s Second Coming - An overview of V2 and Prediction Markets](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZRd9nNA4-pY)

  * [Top 10 Most Active ERC-20 Dapps in 2019 Recap Their Year](https://insights.santiment.net/read/top-10-most-active-erc-20-dapps-in-2019-recap-their-year-4318?utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=post&utm_campaign=annual_dev)

* * *

> ####  **`More on Augur`**

_[Augur.net](https://www.augur.net/?source=post_page---------------------------)_

 _[Augur v2: A Tour of the Prediction Protocol’s First Major
Upgrade](https://www.augur.net/blog/augur-v2/?source=post_page---------------------------)_

 _[The Ultimate Guide to Decentralized Prediction
Markets](https://www.augur.net/blog/prediction-
markets/?source=post_page---------------------------)_

 _[Augur Master Plan](https://medium.com/@AugurProject/augur-master-
plan-42dda65a3e3d)_

 _[Announcing the Augur v1
Cutoff](https://www.augur.net/blog/v1-cutoff/?source=post_page---------------------------)_

 _[Augur v2 Transition Update](https://www.augur.net/blog/v2-transition-
update/)_

* * *

 **The Forecast Foundation has no role in the operation of markets, trades or
actions created or performed on the Augur protocol, nor does it have the
ability to censor, restrict, control, modify, change, revoke, terminate or
make any changes to markets created on the Augur protocol. The Forecast
Foundation has no more control over the Augur protocol than anyone else using
Ethereum.**

Thus, we do not seek to advise others on how to use the protocol. We encourage
those in the community who are well educated on Augur to pay it forward and
share their ideas for best practices, tips, fixes, etc with the larger
community via
[Twitter](http://twitter.com/augurproject?source=post_page---------------------------),
[Discord](https://discordapp.com/invite/cX8tcCy),
[Reddit](http://reddit.com/r/augur?source=post_page---------------------------),
[Github](http://github.com/augurproject?source=post_page---------------------------),
and other community channels. For more information regarding the role of the
Forecast Foundation, check out the
[FAQ](http://augur.net/faq?source=post_page---------------------------).

[CommentComment](https://augur.substack.com/p/augur-weekly-how-to-get-a-head-
start/comments)

[ShareShare](javascript:void\(0\))

![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_66,h_66,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fsubstack.com%2Fimg%2Favatars%2Flogged-
out.png)

## Create your profile

Your nameYour bio Subscribe to the newsletter

0 subscriptions will be displayed on your profile (edit)

Skip for now

Save & Post Comment

## Only paid subscribers can comment on this post

[Already a paid subscriber? **Sign in**](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Faugur-weekly-how-to-get-a-head-
start&for_pub=augur&change_user=false)

#### Check your email

For your security, we need to re-authenticate you.

Click the link we sent to , or [click here to sign
in](https://substack.com/sign-in?redirect=%2Fp%2Faugur-weekly-how-to-get-a-
head-start&for_pub=augur&with_password=true).

TopNewCommunity[](javascript:void\(0\))

No posts

# Ready for more?

 **Subscribe**

© 2022 Augur

[Privacy](https://augur.substack.com/privacy) ∙ [Terms](/tos) ∙ [Collection
notice](https://substack.com/ccpa#personal-data-collected)

[ Publish on
Substack](https://substack.com/signup?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=web&utm_content=footer)[
Get the app](https://substack.com/app/app-store-redirect?utm_campaign=app-
marketing&utm_content=web-footer-button)

[Substack](https://substack.com) is the home for great writing

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please [turn on
JavaScript](https://enable-javascript.com/) or unblock scripts

