[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_96,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F1b91c83f-043e-4f2f-91f0-8175edb8f36e_256x256.png)](https://augur.substack.com)

# [Augur Weekly](https://augur.substack.com)

SubscribeSign in

Share this post

Augur Weekly - What Happened in Iowa(?)

augur.substack.com

Copy link

Twitter

Facebook

Email

# Augur Weekly - What Happened in Iowa(?)

### A Look at the Week in Political Betting, Augur News, and More

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_90,h_90,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F59ef0656-8dbe-45a2-b872-26552f58b851_512x512.jpeg)](https://substack.com/profile/4407099-augur)

|

[Augur](https://substack.com/profile/4407099-augur)

| Feb 7, 2020  
---  
  
[Comment](https://augur.substack.com/p/augur-weekly-what-happened-in-
iowa/comments)

[Share](javascript:void\(0\))  
  
[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F71395055-da85-424e-8bf8-17ec836b1206_1100x144.jpeg)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F71395055-da85-424e-8bf8-17ec836b1206_1100x144.jpeg)

 _Augur Weekly posts are public. If someone you know would like this content,
share it!_

[ Share](https://augur.substack.com/p/augur-weekly-what-happened-in-
iowa?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email&utm_content=share&action=share)

* * *

> ###  **Election Betting Roundup**

Well, that was something. After several days and several candidates declaring
victory, Iowa has landed on Pete Buttigieg claiming a slight edge over Bernie
Sanders…maybe.

Amongst the uncertainty, the DNC is doubling down and requesting a
“recanvassing” of the contest. What that entails is anyone’s guess, but let’s
review the confusing steps that have been taken to get to where we are:

 **Iowa Caucus Occurs.** First, the Iowa caucuses occurred. Iowa awards 41
delegates determined by communities in 1,678 precinct locations. These
precincts will shut their doors and enact an elaborate dance to determine a
“viable” candidate. Many participants and onlookers have described the process
as unorganized, antiquated, or just plain weird.

 **Reporting App Malfunctions.** On election night, no results at all were
reported, after an app ([called
Shadow](https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/481575-shadow-ceo-we-feel-
really-terrible-about-iowa-caucus-app-flap)) used to report results
malfunctioned.

 **Results.** Then, the tallies didn’t add up, the delegate numbers were
wrong, and there were mismatches between the numbers reported by the state and
those reported by local precincts. The Iowa Democratic party compounded the
issue by refusing to tell anyone when they could expect results and appearing
to be in no hurry to disclose the outcome.

 **Buttigieg declares victory.** These results showed that Bernie Sanders had
the most votes in the state, while Pete Buttigieg narrowly had the most “state
delegate equivalents”. This emboldened Pete Buttigieg to be the first to
declare victory.

 **Then Bernie declares victory.** On Thursday, Bernie declares a victory
devoid of specifics. Does he mean SDEs, Popular vote, who knows?

 **Prediction markets react.** Heading into Monday’s caucus, Bernie held a
commanding lead on Augur (68c/share) and PredictIt (76c/share) before voting
began.

After Pete’s declaration of victory, the odds flipped, with Pete commanding
76/share to Bernie’s 24c. On Thursday, Bernie’s declaration caused some
confusion for PredictIt user’s as the odds again flipped to a ~2:1 Bernie
advantage before backtracking to a Pete lead. Currently, Pete has an 80c/share
price in Iowa vs 20c/share for Bernie amidst the continued uncertainty.

 **Tom Perez requests a “recanvassing.”** And lastly, the chairman of the
Democratic National Committee is calling for the Iowa Democratic Party to
conduct a recanvass of the caucus results amid ongoing delays in their
release, citing its necessity to ensure "public confidence in the results."

Hopefully, the DNC can get its act together before Tuesday’s New Hampshire
contest. In the meantime, you can tune in to tonight’s NH debate at 5pm PST.

* * *

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F9e10a4cd-
ecc6-4a96-8443-9d5e9e001984_1024x380.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F9e10a4cd-
ecc6-4a96-8443-9d5e9e001984_1024x380.png)

Coming soon in Q1 2020,  **[Augur](https://www.augur.net/) will be the only
platform for political betting with no limits, the best odds, and the lowest
fees.**

Join the waitlist!

 **Subscribe**

* * *

> ####  **`More on Augur`**

_[Augur.net](https://www.augur.net/?source=post_page---------------------------)_

 _[Augur v2: A Tour of the Prediction Protocol’s First Major
Upgrade](https://www.augur.net/blog/augur-v2/?source=post_page---------------------------)_

 _[The Ultimate Guide to Decentralized Prediction
Markets](https://www.augur.net/blog/prediction-
markets/?source=post_page---------------------------)_

 _[Augur Master Plan](https://medium.com/@AugurProject/augur-master-
plan-42dda65a3e3d)_

 _[Announcing the Augur v1
Cutoff](https://www.augur.net/blog/v1-cutoff/?source=post_page---------------------------)_

 _[Augur v2 Transition Update](https://www.augur.net/blog/v2-transition-
update/)_

* * *

 **The Forecast Foundation has no role in the operation of markets, trades or
actions created or performed on the Augur protocol, nor does it have the
ability to censor, restrict, control, modify, change, revoke, terminate or
make any changes to markets created on the Augur protocol. The Forecast
Foundation has no more control over the Augur protocol than anyone else using
Ethereum.**

Thus, we do not seek to advise others on how to use the protocol. We encourage
those in the community who are well educated on Augur to pay it forward and
share their ideas for best practices, tips, fixes, etc with the larger
community via
[Twitter](http://twitter.com/augurproject?source=post_page---------------------------),
[Discord](https://discord.gg/wWMumZr),
[Reddit](http://reddit.com/r/augur?source=post_page---------------------------),
[Github](http://github.com/augurproject?source=post_page---------------------------),
and other community channels. For more information regarding the role of the
Forecast Foundation, check out the
[FAQ](http://augur.net/faq?source=post_page---------------------------).

[CommentComment](https://augur.substack.com/p/augur-weekly-what-happened-in-
iowa/comments)

[ShareShare](javascript:void\(0\))

![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_66,h_66,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fsubstack.com%2Fimg%2Favatars%2Flogged-
out.png)

## Create your profile

Your nameYour bio Subscribe to the newsletter

0 subscriptions will be displayed on your profile (edit)

Skip for now

Save & Post Comment

## Only paid subscribers can comment on this post

[Already a paid subscriber? **Sign in**](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Faugur-weekly-what-happened-in-
iowa&for_pub=augur&change_user=false)

#### Check your email

For your security, we need to re-authenticate you.

Click the link we sent to , or [click here to sign
in](https://substack.com/sign-in?redirect=%2Fp%2Faugur-weekly-what-happened-
in-iowa&for_pub=augur&with_password=true).

TopNewCommunity[](javascript:void\(0\))

No posts

# Ready for more?

 **Subscribe**

© 2022 Augur

[Privacy](https://augur.substack.com/privacy) ∙ [Terms](/tos) ∙ [Collection
notice](https://substack.com/ccpa#personal-data-collected)

[ Publish on
Substack](https://substack.com/signup?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=web&utm_content=footer)[
Get the app](https://substack.com/app/app-store-redirect?utm_campaign=app-
marketing&utm_content=web-footer-button)

[Substack](https://substack.com) is the home for great writing

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please [turn on
JavaScript](https://enable-javascript.com/) or unblock scripts

