[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_96,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F1b91c83f-043e-4f2f-91f0-8175edb8f36e_256x256.png)](https://augur.substack.com)

# [Augur Weekly](https://augur.substack.com)

SubscribeSign in

Share this post

Augur Weekly - 3 Political Markets with Explosive Upside in 2020

augur.substack.com

Copy link

Twitter

Facebook

Email

# Augur Weekly - 3 Political Markets with Explosive Upside in 2020

### A Look at the Week in Political Betting, Augur News, and More

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_90,h_90,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F59ef0656-8dbe-45a2-b872-26552f58b851_512x512.jpeg)](https://substack.com/profile/4407099-augur)

|

[Augur](https://substack.com/profile/4407099-augur)

| Dec 13, 2019  
---  
  
[Comment](https://augur.substack.com/p/augur-weekly-3-political-
markets/comments)

[Share](javascript:void\(0\))  
  
 _  
Augur Weekly posts are public. If someone you know might like it, feel free to
share!_

[ Share](https://augur.substack.com/p/augur-weekly-3-political-
markets?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email&utm_content=share&action=share)

* * *

Holy cow. There won’t be a dull week in political betting for the next 12
months, will there?

Yesterday, the UK saw a Conservative majority and Boris Johnson take the
Parliament and Prime Minister elections, respectively. The
[Guesser](https://guesser.io/x)-created market for UK majority in Parliament
became one of the largest in Augur’s early history, with over $200k in open
interest.

[![Image](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fdd818221-d203-4bc4-a044-84cb9129c402_2048x1152.jpeg)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fdd818221-d203-4bc4-a044-84cb9129c402_2048x1152.jpeg)

This result had implications for other contests, as the ‘Brexit by Feb 1st’
market on PredictIt made a strong move upwards upon the results. The market
now prices the chance at .81/share, up from .56/share earlier in the week.

[![Image](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fa156dc12-c703-4e0a-8559-02864e0d2634_1200x900.jpeg)](https://twitter.com/biancoresearch/status/1205251501368729601/photo/1)

Now, let’s take a look at some markets that are sure to have explosive upside
in 2020.

One thing is for sure, the most profitable opportunities will be on platforms
like Augur, where there are no limits on the amount bet in markets and the
breadth of markets available.

* * *

#### 1) DemNom.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fbd52fde2-7136-4250-b185-221732a06674_1600x647.png)](https://images.ctfassets.net/sdlntm3tthp6/2x2R5l5nskY39alLOp3AVu/d1e02689a1343c7712b10c230715cacd/Augur_Price_Analysis_9_Dec_2019__7_.png)

Look, maybe we’re biased, but having covered the volatility in this market
over the past few months, it’s not hard to see that there will be some serious
opportunities to profit off of the rolling winds of sentiment for this cycle’s
cast of characters.

So many questions remain. Will the establishment favorite, Biden, or fellow
moderate, Pete Buttigieg, finally take the reins from here? Or will one of the
progressive challengers; Sanders and Warren; garner the momentum necessary to
capture the nomination?

Will overbought longshots with name recognition, like Clinton and Bloomberg,
continue to create ample opportunity for profitable shorts?

[![Twitter avatar for
@charliebilello](https://substackcdn.com/image/twitter_name/w_36/charliebilello.jpg)Charlie
Bilello @charliebilelloThe betting markets have Hillary Clinton (who is not
running) w/ a higher probability (at 10%) of winning the nomination than
Michael Bloomberg (9%).
](https://twitter.com/charliebilello/status/1205192862763298818)[predictit.org/markets/detail…](https://www.predictit.org/markets/detail/3633/Who-
will-win-the-2020-Democratic-presidential-nomination)

![Image](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_600,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fpbs.substack.com%2Fmedia%2FELm0hO-
WoAEdfy9.png)

[December 12th 2019

13 Retweets84
Likes](https://twitter.com/charliebilello/status/1205192862763298818)

And then there’s Yang. I mean, **** betting against Andrew Yang is essentially
free money.

Any way you slice it, the best odds among any candidate are substantially
long, with the favorite offering a near 300% return on a correct prediction.

> ###  _Betting against Andrew Yang is essentially free money_

* * *

#### 2) Impeachment

In recent impeachment news, the House Judiciary Committee voted to advance two
articles of impeachment accusing President Trump of abuse of power and
obstruction of Congress. DJT’s price of a first-term impeachment now stands at
.93/share and the odds of it occurring in 2019 are similarly high, at
.86/share.

Meanwhile, his odds of a senate conviction on the same charges continue to
trend remarkably low. At fresh lows of .10/share, there is **quite the
upside** for those who believe that there is more than a minuscule chance that
a GOP-controlled Senate finds Trump guilty.

* * *

#### 3) 2020 U.S. Presidential Election

Like the DemNom market, the Democratic nominee stands to see their odds in
this market increase 2 or 3-fold upon their selection. What’s more, if one
thinks the Democratic nominee will go on to win the election, they stand to
make at least 4:1 (and as high as 10:1 for some popular candidates). Even at
the very shortest odds amongst potential outcomes, betting on a Trump re-
election would still net one greater than a 100% return upon victory.

The potential amount wagered on this contest is hard to fathom. As Augur
contributor Ryan Berckmans puts it:

[![Twitter avatar for
@RyanBerckmans](https://substackcdn.com/image/twitter_name/w_36/RyanBerckmans.jpg)Ryan
Berckmans @RyanBerckmansAugur is going to be an absolute monster in five
years. Augur has $200k wagered on the UK election today. $1.5M on the 2018
midterm election. Expect $10M+ on the 2020 election. Why would Augur be the
only extremely successful end-user app built on
Ethereum?](https://twitter.com/RyanBerckmans/status/1205152744488738816)

[December 12th 2019

37 Retweets203
Likes](https://twitter.com/RyanBerckmans/status/1205152744488738816)

Looking at the precedents from previous elections paints an even grander
picture. With Betfair serving primarily overseas customers and PredictIt’s
trading limits, it’s not hard to see how Augur could capture much of the
interest for this sure-to-be climactic election:

[![Twitter avatar for
@STLDexchange](https://substackcdn.com/image/twitter_name/w_36/STLDexchange.jpg)STLD
@STLDexchangeBetfair is a *UK* based betting platform. PredictIt (2014 launch)
has an $850 limit. 2012 *US* Presidential election bets matched (OI):
-Betfair: $50m 2016: -Betfair: $210m -PredictIt: $42m 2020 on @AugurProject:
?](https://twitter.com/STLDexchange/status/1195474928025231360)

[November 15th 2019

1 Retweet8 Likes](https://twitter.com/STLDexchange/status/1195474928025231360)

* * *

As a reminder, come Q1 2020,  **[Augur](https://www.augur.net/) will be the
only platform for political betting with no limits, the lowest fees, and
unbeatable odds.**

To receive updates on Augur including this newsletter, sign up below:

 **Subscribe**

 _Further Reading:_

  * [Augur Edge](https://mailchi.mp/1eccad172c56/monthly-trading-insights-2490577?e=\[UNIQID\]) -  _Ben Davidow_

  * [Who will Finish 3rd or Worse in Early Primaries](https://depictitpichartsanalysis.wordpress.com/2019/12/09/who-will-finish-third-or-worse-in-the-early-primaries/) -  _DepictIt_

  *  _[StarSpangledGamblers](https://starspangledgamblers.com/)_

  * [Dems Should Pass on Kamala as VP](https://blog.politicalalertengine.com/dems-should-pass-on-kamala-as-vp) _-[Political Alert Engine](https://blog.politicalalertengine.com/)_

  * [Want Better Forecasting? Silence the Noise](https://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article/want-better-forecasting-silence-the-noise/) - _Wharton/Penn_

* * *

> ####  **`More on Augur`**

_[Augur.net](https://www.augur.net/?source=post_page---------------------------)_

 _[Augur v2: A Tour of the Prediction Protocol’s First Major
Upgrade](https://www.augur.net/blog/augur-v2/?source=post_page---------------------------)_

 _[The Ultimate Guide to Decentralized Prediction
Markets](https://www.augur.net/blog/prediction-
markets/?source=post_page---------------------------)_

 _[Augur Master Plan](https://medium.com/@AugurProject/augur-master-
plan-42dda65a3e3d)_

 _[Announcing the Augur v1
Cutoff](https://www.augur.net/blog/v1-cutoff/?source=post_page---------------------------)_

 _[Augur v2 Transition Update](https://www.augur.net/blog/v2-transition-
update/)_

* * *

 **The Forecast Foundation has no role in the operation of markets, trades or
actions created or performed on the Augur protocol, nor does it have the
ability to censor, restrict, control, modify, change, revoke, terminate or
make any changes to markets created on the Augur protocol. The Forecast
Foundation has no more control over the Augur protocol than anyone else using
Ethereum.**

Thus, we do not seek to advise others on how to use the protocol. We encourage
those in the community who are well educated on Augur to pay it forward and
share their ideas for best practices, tips, fixes, etc with the larger
community via
[Twitter](http://twitter.com/augurproject?source=post_page---------------------------),
[Discord](https://discordapp.com/invite/cX8tcCy),
[Reddit](http://reddit.com/r/augur?source=post_page---------------------------),
[Github](http://github.com/augurproject?source=post_page---------------------------),
and other community channels. For more information regarding the role of the
Forecast Foundation, check out the
[FAQ](http://augur.net/faq?source=post_page---------------------------).

* * *

Cheers,

The Forecast Foundation OU

[CommentComment](https://augur.substack.com/p/augur-weekly-3-political-
markets/comments)

[ShareShare](javascript:void\(0\))

![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_66,h_66,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fsubstack.com%2Fimg%2Favatars%2Flogged-
out.png)

## Create your profile

Your nameYour bio Subscribe to the newsletter

0 subscriptions will be displayed on your profile (edit)

Skip for now

Save & Post Comment

## Only paid subscribers can comment on this post

[Already a paid subscriber? **Sign in**](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Faugur-weekly-3-political-
markets&for_pub=augur&change_user=false)

#### Check your email

For your security, we need to re-authenticate you.

Click the link we sent to , or [click here to sign
in](https://substack.com/sign-in?redirect=%2Fp%2Faugur-weekly-3-political-
markets&for_pub=augur&with_password=true).

TopNewCommunity[](javascript:void\(0\))

No posts

# Ready for more?

 **Subscribe**

© 2022 Augur

[Privacy](https://augur.substack.com/privacy) ∙ [Terms](/tos) ∙ [Collection
notice](https://substack.com/ccpa#personal-data-collected)

[ Publish on
Substack](https://substack.com/signup?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=web&utm_content=footer)[
Get the app](https://substack.com/app/app-store-redirect?utm_campaign=app-
marketing&utm_content=web-footer-button)

[Substack](https://substack.com) is the home for great writing

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please [turn on
JavaScript](https://enable-javascript.com/) or unblock scripts

