[Konrad S. Graf](/)

  * [About](/)
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)
  * Evolutionary Health [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health) [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)
  * [Translation](/translation)
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)
  * [Blog](/blog1)
  * [Contact](/contact)

# [Konrad S. Graf](/)

  * [About](/)/
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)/
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)/
  * Evolutionary Health/

    * [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health)
    * [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)

  * [Translation](/translation)/
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)/
  * [Blog](/blog1)/
  * [Contact](/contact)/

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf) [
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A) [
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

# [Konrad S. Graf](/)

# Blog

# [Konrad S. Graf](/)

  * [About](/)/
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)/
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)/
  * Evolutionary Health/

    * [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health)
    * [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)

  * [Translation](/translation)/
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)/
  * [Blog](/blog1)/
  * [Contact](/contact)/

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf) [
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A) [
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

[November 21, 2017](/blog1/2017/11/21/barbell-and-beef-experimentslessons-and-
customizations)

# [Barbell and beef experiments—Lessons and
customizations](/blog1/2017/11/21/barbell-and-beef-experimentslessons-and-
customizations)

[November 21, 2017](/blog1/2017/11/21/barbell-and-beef-experimentslessons-and-
customizations)/ [Konrad Graf](/blog1?author=5720adbcb6aa6055fa279727)

![EarlyBarbell.png](https://images.squarespace-
cdn.com/content/v1/5720adbdc6fc0891cbcce17c/1511277436901-H0A53TB4S4BRXSUSF3GO/EarlyBarbell.png)

For the self-made lab rat, little is more fascinating than running spontaneous
self-experiments to find ways to increase effectiveness, especially if it
involves crushing at least some ill-founded conventional assumptions in the
process—preferably multiple ones at a time.

While readers more often hear about my research into legal theory or bitcoin
monetary economics, I do post an occasional entry on health (see my [grand
unified theory](http://www.konradsgraf.com/blog1/2017/7/9/a-unified-
evolutionary-theory-of-human-and-environmental-health) of evolutionary
health). What follows is an update on the current state of my “barbells and
beef” activities, which fill out the Nakamoto Institute-declared maximalist
trinity of “bitcoin, barbells, and beef.” The emphasis this time is somewhat
more slanted toward barbells, but beef is not wholly neglected—as it should
never be.

I have worked with different weight-lifting systems for some years, starting
only later in life, but I finally came across one, on the recommendation of
Saifedean Ammous, that makes the most sense to me, feels best, and with which
I am having the most success. This is the approach formalized by Mark Rippetoe
in his books _Starting Strength_ and _Practical Programming for Strength
Training_.

The last thing I had tried was based on _Body by Science_ by Doug McGuff. I
ultimately found this program a miserable one to experience. I just felt bad
doing it and didn’t want to continue. In contrast to McGuff’s system, Rippetoe
explains, convincingly I believe, the superiority of natural barbell movements
requiring whole-body integration and weight-bearing and practical balance,
over isolated machine work. In addition, the idea of pushing reps to failure
is not a very productive one and I felt it created a dismal participant
experience of exhaustion.

I was fortunate to have the opportunity to set up two 90-minute private
lessons in June with Jeremy Tully, a certified Starting Strength coach at Bay
Strength in Oakland, California. This was invaluable. Even though I believe I
am relatively good at self-teaching from books and videos, the coaching still
improved my form a great deal on all four basic lifts. This is a real savior
as the weights gradually increase, for it is form above all that prevents
injury and makes the lifts more ergonomically effective in terms of load
physics.

What I find motivating about Rippetoe’s approach is that the workouts are
largely the same each time, while the amount of weight lifted increases.
Adding a similar small amount of weight each session sets up what is called a
linear progression. This helps “gamify” the program by making progress
objectively obvious, consistent, and easy to track.

###  **Great on lifts; get diet advice elsewhere**

One of the infamous problems with Rippetoe’s system is not its weight-lifting
advice, but its dietary advice. The latter, which includes a gallon of milk a
day, has often resulted in some adherents gaining weight that is NOT all lean.

Instead of this, I have been doing a different type of experiment in parallel
since mid-September. I joined the “nequalsmany” human carnivore study, which
has launched a new way for individual self-experimenters to coordinate their
research and aggregate their data from similar programs. [Dr. Shawn
Baker](https://twitter.com/SBakerMD) has been instrumental in helping to
organize and promote this. I have been on the program for the past 68 days,
but I had already mostly transitioned onto it in the weeks before starting
officially. During this time, I have eaten basically only meat and drank only
water. Those interested in learning more about this strategy should go and
read everything ever written by [L. Amber
O'Hearn](https://twitter.com/KetoCarnivore) at
[ketotic.org](http://www.ketotic.org/). There, that was easy.

I have lately begun to make a few exceptions due to some issues having to do
with an unusual condition called [histamine
intolerance](http://www.diagnosisdiet.com/histamine-intolerance/) (speaking of
that link, also go and read everything by [Georgia
Ede](https://twitter.com/georgiaedemd) at
[diagnosisdiet.com](http://www.diagnosisdiet.com/)). This condition is
essentially an often-middle-age-onset sensitivity to foods that are aged,
animal foods prominent among them. So I have to do a lot of extra work in
relation to conventional supply chains to try to get the freshest possible
meats. Even so, to help further mitigate the effects, I have recently added
some dairy products, which do seem to help with my unusual symptoms, but I
have nevertheless eaten perhaps 95% meat during the past two and a half
months, the rest, only recently, being some lower-histamine cheeses and high-
fat Greek yogurt. In other words, no plant foods in sight, and certainly no
Rippetoe-esque milk gallons.

###  **Provisional results**

As many others before me have reported after successfully transitioning to a
carnivorous diet, I feel better and more effective than ever, sleep better,
and have lost some middle-aged excess around the waist. My natural
concentration is now such that I should use a break timer because otherwise I
can work for five or six hours or more at a sitting without noticing or
looking up. This was NOT the case on previous eating strategies. In my bad old
carb-eating days, I would start to think of a snack break after 90 minutes or
so. Now, I eat once in the morning and literally have no thought of food again
for approximately seven–nine hours, at which point I eat a second time.

Moving on to more quantitative results, with the combination of these two
programs, my overall body weight has remained about the same for the past
two–three months, though it is down slightly. However, since the beginning of
September, the weights I have been lifting (for five-rep sets) have increased
by a combined average of 17%, comprising 24% for one basic barbell exercise
and 16% each for the other three. Thus, while my body weight has remained
essentially stable, my strength has increased 17%. This represents a
substantial increase in power/weight ratio, one of the most important
variables in a great many physical endeavors.

Rippetoe’s program is by no means a “body-building” system. Such systems use
quite different training methods, for example, far higher repetitions per set
and more isolation exercises for the main purpose of gaining visible, though
not especially efficient, lean mass. Nevertheless, for a strength program,
too, some lean tissue has to be built as one of several types of physiological
supports for the capability gains.

This means that my body composition has improved, with fat lost somewhat more
than offsetting lean gained. As a percentage of body weight, my barbell
weights have risen, slowly and steadily from early September through mid-
November. The pace of increase should also be understood to reflect an age in
the mid-forties as opposed to, say, the mid-twenties.

![Percent of weight progress.jpeg](https://images.squarespace-
cdn.com/content/v1/5720adbdc6fc0891cbcce17c/1511276884464-AYPIR6PF0165PGUJ1DJ9/Percent+of+weight+progress.jpeg)

### **Program customizations**

I have made a few tweaks to the basic Starting Strength program with time.

The basic initial program looks about like this (5x3 = 5 repetitions x 3
sets):

 **A Day:** Squat 5x3, Press 5x3, Deadlift 5x1

 **B Day:** Squat 5x3, Bench 5x3, Deadlift 5x1

(The B Day drops the deadlift for other exercises before long)

One–two recovery days in between, mostly one.

The most common outside criticism of this program is what is said to be an
overemphasis on lower-body work over upper, according to [Jose
Nino](https://twitter.com/JoseAlNino), who knows his way around different
programming systems. So my first modification based on this observation was to
drop the squat from every workout, placing it only on alternate workouts, just
like all the other exercises. To do so, after some trial and error, I
eventually came up with this:

 **A Day:** Squat 5x3, Bench 5x3

 **B Day:** Press 5x3, Deadlift 5x1, support exercises

One–two recovery days in between, mostly two.

This places one upper-body and one lower-body/back exercise on each day. This
went on for quite some time, I was happy doing it, it didn’t take a huge
amount of time (roughly 60 minutes per workout including warm-up sets), and
progress continued. I put in an occasional extra recovery day at times such
that the workouts averaged two–three times a week.

My next, very recent, program customization has been somewhat more daring in
its departure from standard programs. After reading _Practical Programming_ ,
I was struck by all the added complications in intermediate programming,
except for the deadlift, which just went on its merry way linearly progressing
at one work-set a week!

So I thought, Why not try something more in that direction with the other
lifts too? That would be much simpler and easier. Laziness is the mother of
invention.

My latest workout combines more lifts onto one day, but with just one work set
for each lift. This makes it possible to hit each of these four lifts _more_
often while going to the gym _less_ often. This also enables dropping the
number of warm-up sets for later exercises from four to three since the lifter
is already warm from the previous exercises and need only revisit the form
under a few different weights before proceeding with the main-event set.

Dropping to one set might also keep the linear progression going longer. If
any theme emerged from _Practical Programming_ , it is to keep the linear
progression running as long as possible before moving to intermediate
programming. And if any aspect of the linear progression rationale was
emphasized above all, it was putting more weight on the bar, slowly but
steadily, from each workout to the next for as long as possible within the
linear model.

This latest customization looks like this (plus warm-up sets):

 **A Day:** Press 5x1 **,** Squat 5x1 **,** Bench 5x1 **,** Deadlift 5x1

 **B Day:** Press 5x1 **,** Squat 5x1 **,** Bench 5x1 **,** support exercises:
1x AMRAP pull-ups, dips, and/or weighted back extensions

Two recovery days in between.

This is still quite new, so I’m going to have to see how it fares over the
coming weeks.

###  **Facing up to diminishing marginal utility and rising marginal cost**

![The economist at the gym sees diminishing gains and rising production costs.
Image from the Cover of Practical Programming for Strength Training by Mark
Rippetoe and Andy Baker.](https://images.squarespace-
cdn.com/content/v1/5720adbdc6fc0891cbcce17c/1511279759336-RYZH9AR3ANCS0W6BRSEO/IMG_7538.JPG)

The economist at the gym sees diminishing gains and rising production costs.
Image from the Cover of Practical Programming for Strength Training by Mark
Rippetoe and Andy Baker.

Much of the weight-lifting literature, including Rippetoe’s, seems to assume
the goal of indefinitely increasing strength further, and then pushes right on
to the question of _how_ to do this. But the meddling economist must
interject. “More is better” does not reflect the _marginal_ character of both
costs and benefits.

As Rippetoe explains, as strength increases, more training time, and
increasingly complex training methods, are required for additional gains. The
law of diminishing marginal utility shows that each additional gain will be
less useful for health and function than each previous gain was. At the same
time, each such marginal gain comes at a higher and higher cost in training
time and complexity. If narrower and less valuable gains are coming at an ever
higher cost of production, it should make sense to find a plateau at some
reasonable amount of invested time and effort. This is so unless, of course,
one does have a more specific goal of pushing the outer limits of personal
capability, such as for competition.

I suspect that I will be happy to plateau with these lifts on a simple
advanced novice program and then discover natural maintenance weights at which
there is neither further progress nor regression. This should enable improved
capability while avoiding all the additional time and effort needed to eek out
diminishing added gains. The results should cover most of the health and
function benefits with minimal effort.

What I am curious about now is what lifted-weight levels this relatively
simple customized program will end up plateauing at. At this point, the
weights that should be increasing—the ones on the bar—are still doing so, and
the weight that should not be increasing—the one on the morning scale—is
either stationary or edging down. Both are happening together, a provisional
success for this self-made lab rat.

###  **P.S. A few lifting-related tips and tricks**

1) Since most conventional commercial gyms do not have fractional weight
plates, I ordered some through Amazon and take them to the gym with me each
time (1kg, 0.5kg and 0.25kg plates so far).

2) Warm-up sets are important. My own customized warm-up sets, except for
deadlift, now follow the pattern: 1) Empty bar 5x, 2) 40% of work weight 5x,
3) 60% of work weight 3x, and 4) 80% of work weight 2x.

3) I use the app Strong to track workouts and progress. The Starting Strength
app worked fine to start with, but only implements the official program and
does not allow for customization.

4) I ordered some Nike weight-lifting shoes and do like them. Some people
swear by socks or Five Fingers, but socks at least are technically against
commercial gym rules, though some people slip off their shoes anyway.

5) My favorite hack of all follows from the fact that many conventional
commercial gyms ban the use of chalk for improved grip. Instead, one can take
the small paper towels the gym provides to wipe down equipment and wrap them
around the bar, one under each hand. This creates a solid grip for the
deadlift without chalk.

6) I ordered up some Captains of Crush grippers for home grip training on non-
barbell days.

**[UPDATE 29 December 2017]:** Not long after this post, I started the 5/3/1
program. Having completed the first four-week cycle, I am a big fan of this
program. Progress has accelerated without having to spend a lot of time. Using
the 5/3/1 Strength app now automates all the percent weight calculations,
which is the only potentially complex part. I recommend reading the 5/3/1 book
and this [article](https://www.t-nation.com/workouts/531-how-to-build-pure-
strength). Wendler specifically addresses trying to only do one big set
without more volume at lower weights, reminiscent of what I was about to try
at the end of the above post. He mentioned in the just-linked article that he
did actually try that and it did not work.]

[__November 21, 2017](/blog1/2017/11/21/barbell-and-beef-experimentslessons-
and-customizations) / [__Konrad Graf](/blog1?author=5720adbcb6aa6055fa279727)
/ [__[](/blog1/2017/11/21/barbell-and-beef-experimentslessons-and-
customizations) ](/blog1/2017/11/21/barbell-and-beef-experimentslessons-and-
customizations)

__[Health](/blog1/category/Health), [Training](/blog1/category/Training)

__[Starting Strength](/blog1/tag/Starting+Strength), [Mark
Rippetoe](/blog1/tag/Mark+Rippetoe), [Carnivory](/blog1/tag/Carnivory),
[Evolutionary health](/blog1/tag/Evolutionary+health)

### [Konrad Graf](/blog1?author=5720adbcb6aa6055fa279727)

  * [__Why can't I see that Bitcoin Cash ...](/blog1/2017/12/20/why-cant-i-see-that-bitcoin-cash-is-a-scam "Why can't I see that Bitcoin Cash is a scam?")
  * [Interview: Bitcoin, blockchains, ... __](/blog1/2017/10/10/bitcoin-blockchains-and-economic-theory-an-interview-with-konrad-s-graf "Interview: Bitcoin, blockchains, and economic theory")

  * [About](/)/
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)/
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)/
  * Evolutionary Health/

    * [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health)
    * [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)

  * [Translation](/translation)/
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)/
  * [Blog](/blog1)/
  * [Contact](/contact)/

### Konrad S. Graf

Research and writing portal for the work of Konrad S. Graf. Focus areas
include monetary theory and bitcoin, legal philosophy,  evolutionary health,
Japanese translation, and Spacial Dynamics.

[Blog RSS](http://feeds.feedburner.com/Blog-KonradSGraf "Blog RSS")

[![Creative Commons
License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/80x15.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)  
This site is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

  * [ December 2020 ](/blog1?month=12-2020)
    * Dec 8, 2020  [Texas sues four states for violating the Electors Clause: Initial summary and comment](/blog1/2020/12/8/texas-sues-pa-ga-mi-and-wi-for-violating-the-electors-clause-initial-summary-and-comment) Dec 8, 2020 
  * [ December 2019 ](/blog1?month=12-2019)
    * Dec 24, 2019  [New paper: The Bitcoin Block Size Limit, Artificial Scarcity, and Code-Enhanced Public Club Governance](/blog1/2019/12/24/new-paper-the-bitcoin-block-size-limit-artificial-scarcity-and-code-enhanced-public-club-governance) Dec 24, 2019 
  * [ October 2019 ](/blog1?month=10-2019)
    * Oct 1, 2019  [Sound Money Strikes at the Root: A Review Essay on The Bitcoin Standard](/blog1/2019/10/1/sound-money-strikes-at-the-root-a-review-essay-on-the-bitcoin-standard) Oct 1, 2019 
  * [ April 2019 ](/blog1?month=04-2019)
    * Apr 26, 2019  [Justice as distinct from rule through law](/blog1/2019/4/26/justice-as-distinct-from-rule-through-law) Apr 26, 2019 
  * [ November 2018 ](/blog1?month=11-2018)
    * Nov 30, 2018  [Speaking with one-year-olds and beyond: Age-appropriateness, healthy authority, and social implications](/blog1/2018/11/30/speaking-with-one-year-olds-and-beyond-age-appropriateness-healthy-authority-and-social-implications) Nov 30, 2018 
  * [ December 2017 ](/blog1?month=12-2017)
    * Dec 20, 2017  [Why can't I see that Bitcoin Cash is a scam?](/blog1/2017/12/20/why-cant-i-see-that-bitcoin-cash-is-a-scam) Dec 20, 2017 
  * [ November 2017 ](/blog1?month=11-2017)
    * Nov 21, 2017  [Barbell and beef experiments—Lessons and customizations](/blog1/2017/11/21/barbell-and-beef-experimentslessons-and-customizations) Nov 21, 2017 
  * [ October 2017 ](/blog1?month=10-2017)
    * Oct 11, 2017  [Interview: Bitcoin, blockchains, and economic theory](/blog1/2017/10/10/bitcoin-blockchains-and-economic-theory-an-interview-with-konrad-s-graf) Oct 11, 2017 
  * [ August 2017 ](/blog1?month=08-2017)
    * Aug 20, 2017  [BTC plus BCC showing strong combined gains as market attention shifts to next controversy](/blog1/2017/8/19/btc-plus-bcc-showing-strong-combined-gains) Aug 20, 2017 
    * Aug 5, 2017  [Descendants with modifications: Bitcoin’s new and possibly beneficial evolutionary test](/blog1/2017/8/5/descendants-with-modifications-bitcoins-new-and-possibly-beneficial-evolutionary-test) Aug 5, 2017 
  * [ July 2017 ](/blog1?month=07-2017)
    * Jul 23, 2017  [Additional Issues with the Balance and Accuracy of the Anti-Musk Narrative](/blog1/2017/7/23/77vber91a23965ptgjnph82ktt51f9) Jul 23, 2017 
    * Jul 23, 2017  [A Mixed Hero: A Libertarian Reassessment of Elon Musk](/blog1/2017/7/22/hnbbsghwp2hf881mjakf4q2sjnxwh3) Jul 23, 2017 
    * Jul 9, 2017  [Outlines of a Unified Evolutionary Theory of Human and Environmental Health](/blog1/2017/7/9/a-unified-evolutionary-theory-of-human-and-environmental-health) Jul 9, 2017 
  * [ October 2016 ](/blog1?month=10-2016)
    * Oct 15, 2016  [Yes and Nein: Borrowing the best from German and American cultures (and not borrowing the worst)](/blog1/2016/10/15/yes-and-nein-borrowing-the-best-from-german-and-american-cultures-and-not-borrowing-the-worst) Oct 15, 2016 
    * Oct 2, 2016  [Ancient travel food meets modern travel: My ultimate paleo travel meal option](/blog1/2016/10/2/ancient-meets-modern-my-ultimate-paleo-travel-meal-option) Oct 2, 2016 
  * [ September 2016 ](/blog1?month=09-2016)
    * Sep 29, 2016  [SpaceX can get there, but biology a probable Mars residence limiter](/blog1/2016/9/29/spacex-can-get-there-but-biology-likely-a-critical-mars-residence-limiter) Sep 29, 2016 
  * [ August 2016 ](/blog1?month=08-2016)
    * Aug 16, 2016  [The curious case of the faster-healing knee and the larger steaks](/blog1/2016/8/2/the-curious-case-of-the-faster-healing-knee-and-the-larger-steaks) Aug 16, 2016 
  * [ July 2016 ](/blog1?month=07-2016)
    * Jul 10, 2016  [Block Size Political Economy Follow-Up 3: Differentiation from the 21-million Coin Production Schedule](/blog1/2016/7/8/block-size-political-economy-follow-up-3-differentiation-from-the-21-million-coin-production-schedule) Jul 10, 2016 
    * Jul 9, 2016  [Block Size Political Economy Follow-Up 2: Market Intervention through Voluntary Community Rules](/blog1/2016/7/8/block-size-political-economy-follow-up-2-market-intervention-through-voluntary-community-rules) Jul 9, 2016 
    * Jul 8, 2016  [Block Size Political Economy Follow-Up 1: Software Choice, Market Differentiation, and Term Selection](/blog1/2016/7/8/block-size-political-economy-follow-up-1-software-choice-market-differentiation-and-term-selection) Jul 8, 2016 
  * [ April 2016 ](/blog1?month=04-2016)
    * Apr 22, 2016  [Only the faster profits: A powerful health measure and why it is unadvertised](/blog1/2016/4/22/only-the-faster-profits-a-powerful-health-measure-and-why-it.html) Apr 22, 2016 
  * [ February 2016 ](/blog1?month=02-2016)
    * Feb 4, 2016  [Some misplaced explanations of bitcoins as tradable units](/blog1/2016/2/4/some-misplaced-explanations-of-bitcoins-as-tradable-units.html) Feb 4, 2016 
  * [ November 2015 ](/blog1?month=11-2015)
    * Nov 8, 2015  [Announcing new book on bitcoin and legal theory](/blog1/2015/11/8/announcing-new-book-on-bitcoin-and-legal-theory.html) Nov 8, 2015 
  * [ June 2015 ](/blog1?month=06-2015)
    * Jun 20, 2015  [Preview: “The market for bitcoin transaction inclusion and the temporal root of scarcity”](/blog1/2015/6/20/preview-the-market-for-bitcoin-transaction-inclusion-and-the.html) Jun 20, 2015 
  * [ March 2015 ](/blog1?month=03-2015)
    * Mar 11, 2015  [Bitcoin as a rival digital commodity good: A supplementary comment](/blog1/2015/3/11/bitcoin-as-a-rival-digital-commodity-good-a-supplementary-co.html) Mar 11, 2015 
  * [ February 2015 ](/blog1?month=02-2015)
    * Feb 15, 2015  [Jeff Volek presents research indicating low-carb also best way to improve lipid profiles](/blog1/2015/2/15/jeff-volek-presents-research-indicating-low-carb-also-best-w.html) Feb 15, 2015 
  * [ October 2014 ](/blog1?month=10-2014)
    * Oct 25, 2014  [Sidechained bitcoin substitutes: A monetary commentary](/blog1/2014/10/25/sidechained-bitcoin-substitutes-a-monetary-commentary.html) Oct 25, 2014 
  * [ September 2014 ](/blog1?month=09-2014)
    * Sep 19, 2014  [Bitcoin: Magic, fraud, or 'sufficiently advanced technology'?](/blog1/2014/9/19/bitcoin-magic-fraud-or-sufficiently-advanced-technology.html) Sep 19, 2014 
  * [ August 2014 ](/blog1?month=08-2014)
    * Aug 27, 2014  [A tale of bitcoins and $500 suits: Will a rising-value currency not be used?](/blog1/2014/8/27/a-tale-of-bitcoins-and-500-suits-will-a-rising-value-currenc.html) Aug 27, 2014 
    * Aug 21, 2014  ["Bitcoin 2014 Panel: History of Money & Lessons for Digital Currencies Today" with time-based outline](/blog1/2014/8/21/bitcoin-2014-panel-history-of-money-lessons-for-digital-curr.html) Aug 21, 2014 
    * Aug 19, 2014  [“Bitcoin 2014 Panel: Economic Theory of Bitcoin” with time-based outline](/blog1/2014/8/19/bitcoin-2014-panel-economic-theory-of-bitcoin-with-time-base.html) Aug 19, 2014 
  * [ May 2014 ](/blog1?month=05-2014)
    * May 21, 2014  [Gold standards, optionality, and parallel metallic- and crypto-coin circulations](/blog1/2014/5/21/gold-standards-optionality-and-parallel-metallic-and-crypto.html) May 21, 2014 
    * May 20, 2014  [The helpful fable of the "bitcoin": Duality models revisited](/blog1/2014/5/20/the-helpful-fable-of-the-bitcoin-duality-models-revisited.html) May 20, 2014 
    * May 1, 2014  [Bitcoin weekly weighted average price, July 2010 through April 2014](/blog1/2014/5/1/bitcoin-weekly-weighted-average-price-july-2010-through-apri.html) May 1, 2014 
  * [ March 2014 ](/blog1?month=03-2014)
    * Mar 18, 2014  [New paper: "Revisiting conceptions of commodity and scarcity in light of Bitcoin"](/blog1/2014/3/18/new-paper-revisiting-conceptions-of-commodity-and-scarcity-i.html) Mar 18, 2014 
    * Mar 12, 2014  [Another layer of distinction behind Tucker’s humanitarians and brutalists ](/blog1/2014/3/12/another-layer-of-distinction-behind-tuckers-humanitarians-an.html) Mar 12, 2014 
    * Mar 6, 2014  [Newsweek uncovers its own lack of integrity in alleged “Satoshi Nakamoto” discovery reporting](/blog1/2014/3/6/newsweek-uncovers-its-own-lack-of-integrity-in-alleged-satos.html) Mar 6, 2014 
  * [ February 2014 ](/blog1?month=02-2014)
    * Feb 27, 2014  [MtGox fiasco highlights advantages of Bitcoin and damage from regulation](/blog1/2014/2/27/mtgox-fiasco-highlights-advantages-of-bitcoin-and-damage-fro.html) Feb 27, 2014 
    * Feb 14, 2014  [Summary update on Bitcoin transaction malleability adjustments](/blog1/2014/2/14/summary-update-on-bitcoin-transaction-malleability-adjustmen.html) Feb 14, 2014 
  * [ January 2014 ](/blog1?month=01-2014)
    * Jan 13, 2014  [Legal and economic perspectives in the action-based analysis of Bitcoin](/blog1/2014/1/13/legal-and-economic-perspectives-in-the-action-based-analysis.html) Jan 13, 2014 
  * [ November 2013 ](/blog1?month=11-2013)
    * Nov 7, 2013  [Hyper-monetization reloaded: Another round of bubble talk](/blog1/2013/11/7/hyper-monetization-reloaded-another-round-of-bubble-talk.html) Nov 7, 2013 
    * Nov 3, 2013  [Expanded "On the origins of Bitcoin" paper with empirical supplements, other revisions](/blog1/2013/11/3/expanded-on-the-origins-of-bitcoin-paper-with-empirical-supp.html) Nov 3, 2013 
  * [ October 2013 ](/blog1?month=10-2013)
    * Oct 25, 2013  [Strong positive response to "On the origins of Bitcoin"](/blog1/2013/10/25/strong-positive-response-to-on-the-origins-of-bitcoin.html) Oct 25, 2013 
    * Oct 23, 2013  ["On the origins of Bitcoin," my new work on Bitcoin and monetary theory](/blog1/2013/10/23/on-the-origins-of-bitcoin-my-new-work-on-bitcoin-and-monetar.html) Oct 23, 2013 
    * Oct 3, 2013  [Bitcoin and social theory reflections: A review essay between Amsterdam and Atlanta](/blog1/2013/10/3/bitcoin-and-social-theory-reflections-a-review-essay-between.html) Oct 3, 2013 
  * [ September 2013 ](/blog1?month=09-2013)
    * Sep 15, 2013  [The labor, leisure, and happiness game: Psychology, praxeology, and ethics](/blog1/2013/9/15/the-labor-leisure-and-happiness-game-psychology-praxeology-a.html) Sep 15, 2013 
    * Sep 14, 2013  [Bitcoin as medium of exchange now and unit of account later: The inverse of Koning's medieval coins](/blog1/2013/9/14/bitcoin-as-medium-of-exchange-now-and-unit-of-account-later.html) Sep 14, 2013 
  * [ August 2013 ](/blog1?month=08-2013)
    * Aug 22, 2013  [Recommended: Provocative and important new article on Bitcoin and altcoins](/blog1/2013/8/22/recommended-provocative-and-important-new-article-on-bitcoin.html) Aug 22, 2013 
    * Aug 21, 2013  [A banking risk premium: Mt. Gox XBT/USD spread over Bitstamp](/blog1/2013/8/21/a-banking-risk-premium-mt-gox-xbtusd-spread-over-bitstamp.html) Aug 21, 2013 
  * [ July 2013 ](/blog1?month=07-2013)
    * Jul 25, 2013  [Tiger cub growing up? Bitcoin weekly average closing prices year over year](/blog1/2013/7/25/tiger-cub-growing-up-bitcoin-weekly-average-closing-prices-y.html) Jul 25, 2013 
    * Jul 22, 2013  [Bitcoin, price denomination and fixed-rate fiat conversions](/blog1/2013/7/22/bitcoin-price-denomination-and-fixed-rate-fiat-conversions.html) Jul 22, 2013 
  * [ June 2013 ](/blog1?month=06-2013)
    * Jun 30, 2013  [Now in audio on YouTube: Bitcoin and regression theorem article](/blog1/2013/6/30/now-in-audio-on-youtube-bitcoin-and-regression-theorem-artic.html) Jun 30, 2013 
    * Jun 20, 2013  [Bitcoins per gold ounce weekly close YTD](/blog1/2013/6/20/bitcoins-per-gold-ounce-weekly-close-ytd.html) Jun 20, 2013 
    * Jun 3, 2013  [The m's and b's of millibitcoin redenomination](/blog1/2013/6/3/the-ms-and-bs-of-millibitcoin-redenomination.html) Jun 3, 2013 
  * [ April 2013 ](/blog1?month=04-2013)
    * Apr 13, 2013  [Another bump on the road: Bitcoin and bubbles revisited](/blog1/2013/4/13/another-bump-on-the-road-bitcoin-and-bubbles-revisited.html) Apr 13, 2013 
    * Apr 11, 2013  [Short-term Bitcoin exchange trends as Rorschach tests of economic views](/blog1/2013/4/11/short-term-bitcoin-exchange-trends-as-rorschach-tests-of-eco.html) Apr 11, 2013 
    * Apr 6, 2013  [Hyper-monetization: Questioning the "Bitcoin bubble" bubble](/blog1/2013/4/6/hyper-monetization-questioning-the-bitcoin-bubble-bubble.html) Apr 6, 2013 
  * [ March 2013 ](/blog1?month=03-2013)
    * Mar 30, 2013  [A short Bitcoin commentary on "Deflation and Liberty"](/blog1/2013/3/30/a-short-bitcoin-commentary-on-deflation-and-liberty.html) Mar 30, 2013 
    * Mar 19, 2013  [IN-DEPTH | The sound of one bitcoin: Tangibility, scarcity, and a "hard-money" checklist](/blog1/2013/3/19/in-depth-the-sound-of-one-bitcoin-tangibility-scarcity-and-a.html) Mar 19, 2013 
    * Mar 15, 2013  [Individualism, collectivism, "mere" birds, and how to understand ice hockey](/blog1/2013/3/15/individualism-collectivism-mere-birds-and-how-to-understand.html) Mar 15, 2013 
    * Mar 6, 2013  [Bitcoin and social-theory research highlights: Digging for kryptonite](/blog1/2013/3/6/bitcoin-and-social-theory-research-highlights-digging-for-kr.html) Mar 6, 2013 
  * [ February 2013 ](/blog1?month=02-2013)
    * Feb 27, 2013  [IN-DEPTH | Bitcoins, the regression theorem, and that curious but unthreatening empirical world](/blog1/2013/2/27/in-depth-bitcoins-the-regression-theorem-and-that-curious-bu.html) Feb 27, 2013 
    * Feb 20, 2013  [Misesian action theory is an approach to social theory, not just economics](/blog1/2013/2/20/misesian-action-theory-is-an-approach-to-social-theory-not-j.html) Feb 20, 2013 
    * Feb 16, 2013  [Reeva Steencamp's final message, academic hubris, and a legal philosophy view of the case](/blog1/2013/2/16/reeva-steencamps-final-message-academic-hubris-and-a-legal-p.html) Feb 16, 2013 
    * Feb 10, 2013  [Bank robber chatting with Bill Murray illustrates self-control theory](/blog1/2013/2/10/bank-robber-chatting-with-bill-murray-illustrates-self-contr.html) Feb 10, 2013 
    * Feb 1, 2013  [Action-Based Jurisprudence II: Down under (and back again)](/blog1/2013/2/1/action-based-jurisprudence-ii-down-under-and-back-again.html) Feb 1, 2013 
  * [ January 2013 ](/blog1?month=01-2013)
    * Jan 15, 2013  [BOOK COMMENT | The Constitution was already perfectly clear to begin with](/blog1/2013/1/15/book-comment-the-constitution-was-already-perfectly-clear-to.html) Jan 15, 2013 
  * [ November 2012 ](/blog1?month=11-2012)
    * Nov 8, 2012  [Another mummer's farce gone by (and more rumors of wogs and dragons)](/blog1/2012/11/8/another-mummers-farce-gone-by-and-more-rumors-of-wogs-and-dr.html) Nov 8, 2012 
  * [ August 2012 ](/blog1?month=08-2012)
    * Aug 25, 2012  [The problem with shouting “Tyranny!” in a crowded theater](/blog1/2012/8/25/the-problem-with-shouting-tyranny-in-a-crowded-theater.html) Aug 25, 2012 
    * Aug 16, 2012  [Resolving the paradox of value](/blog1/2012/8/16/resolving-the-paradox-of-value.html) Aug 16, 2012 
    * Aug 10, 2012  [IN-DEPTH | Logic takes on the physics paradoxes: Review essay on The Spacetime Model: A Theory of Everything by Jacky Jerôme](/blog1/2012/8/10/in-depth-logic-takes-on-the-physics-paradoxes-review-essay-o.html) Aug 10, 2012 
    * Aug 10, 2012  [IN-DEPTH | Ron Paul, Flatland, and the left–right long con: Beyond the Nolan Chart](/blog1/2012/8/10/in-depth-ron-paul-flatland-and-the-leftright-long-con-beyond.html) Aug 10, 2012 
    * Aug 10, 2012  [Two types of A Game of Apples](/blog1/2012/8/10/two-types-of-a-game-of-apples.html) Aug 10, 2012 
  * [ April 2012 ](/blog1?month=04-2012)
    * Apr 1, 2012  [REVIEW | Liberty message in Hunger Games book much weaker in film](/blog1/2012/4/1/review-liberty-message-in-hunger-games-book-much-weaker-in-f.html) Apr 1, 2012 
  * [ January 2012 ](/blog1?month=01-2012)
    * Jan 22, 2012  [REVIEW | Primal Body, Primal Mind by Nora Gedgaudas](/blog1/2012/1/22/review-primal-body-primal-mind-by-nora-gedgaudas.html) Jan 22, 2012 
    * Jan 18, 2012  [REVIEW | The Paleo Answer by Loren Cordain](/blog1/2012/1/18/review-the-paleo-answer-by-loren-cordain.html) Jan 18, 2012 
    * Jan 18, 2012  [REVIEW | Four Laws that Drive the Universe by Peter Atkins](/blog1/2012/1/18/review-four-laws-that-drive-the-universe-by-peter-atkins.html) Jan 18, 2012 
    * Jan 13, 2012  [Is the left–right spectrum in flatland? A better way to graph Ron Paul](/blog1/2012/1/13/is-the-leftright-spectrum-in-flatland-a-better-way-to-graph.html) Jan 13, 2012 
  * [ December 2011 ](/blog1?month=12-2011)
    * Dec 31, 2011  [REVIEW | Cells, Gels, and the Engines of Life by Gerald H. Pollack](/blog1/2011/12/31/review-cells-gels-and-the-engines-of-life-by-gerald-h-pollac.html) Dec 31, 2011 
    * Dec 23, 2011  [REVIEW | Focused progress with Body by Science, but integration with proper running methods should be possible](/blog1/2011/12/23/review-focused-progress-with-body-by-science-but-integration.html) Dec 23, 2011 
  * [ November 2011 ](/blog1?month=11-2011)
    * Nov 11, 2011  [Who was it that lived at the corner of Tech and Humanities?](/blog1/2011/11/11/who-was-it-that-lived-at-the-corner-of-tech-and-humanities.html) Nov 11, 2011 
  * [ August 2011 ](/blog1?month=08-2011)
    * Aug 30, 2011  [On more robust theoretical foundations for legal philosophy](/blog1/2011/8/30/on-more-robust-theoretical-foundations-for-legal-philosophy.html) Aug 30, 2011 
  * [ August 2010 ](/blog1?month=08-2010)
    * Aug 5, 2010  [My top six picks out of the 26 books I read in Jan–Jun 2010](/blog1/2010/8/5/my-top-six-picks-out-of-the-26-books-i-read-in-janjun-2010.html) Aug 5, 2010 
  * [ January 2010 ](/blog1?month=01-2010)
    * Jan 3, 2010  [REVIEW | Avatar: Storyworld creation, justice and environmentalism on Pandora and Earth](/blog1/2010/1/3/review-avatar-storyworld-creation-justice-and-environmentali.html) Jan 3, 2010 
    * Jan 2, 2010  [2009 H2 reading and audiobook results](/blog1/2010/1/2/2009-h2-reading-and-audiobook-results.html) Jan 2, 2010 
  * [ December 2009 ](/blog1?month=12-2009)
    * Dec 2, 2009  [REVIEW | The Gods Themselves and climate-science Orwellianism: Is optimism still possible?](/blog1/2009/12/2/review-the-gods-themselves-and-climate-science-orwellianism.html) Dec 2, 2009 
  * [ September 2009 ](/blog1?month=09-2009)
    * Sep 21, 2009  [Getting to the Core of the Energy Debate](/blog1/2009/9/21/getting-to-the-core-of-the-energy-debate.html) Sep 21, 2009 
  * [ July 2009 ](/blog1?month=07-2009)
    * Jul 9, 2009  [2009 H1 results](/blog1/2009/7/9/2009-h1-results.html) Jul 9, 2009 
    * Jul 3, 2009  [REVIEW | The Ethics of Money Production by Jörg Guido Hülsmann](/blog1/2009/7/3/review-the-ethics-of-money-production-by-jorg-guido-hulsmann.html) Jul 3, 2009 
  * [ February 2009 ](/blog1?month=02-2009)
    * Feb 20, 2009  [Vaclav Klaus hits the right notes before the European Parliament](/blog1/2009/2/20/vaclav-klaus-hits-the-right-notes-before-the-european-parlia.html) Feb 20, 2009 
    * Feb 17, 2009  [The miles per gallon illusion](/blog1/2009/2/17/the-miles-per-gallon-illusion.html) Feb 17, 2009 
    * Feb 17, 2009  ["Enemies of liberty" more accurately located](/blog1/2009/2/17/enemies-of-liberty-more-accurately-located.html) Feb 17, 2009 
    * Feb 4, 2009  [IN-DEPTH | President Obama's inaugural address—analysis and commentary](/blog1/2009/2/4/in-depth-president-obamas-inaugural-addressanalysis-and-comm.html) Feb 4, 2009 
  * [ January 2009 ](/blog1?month=01-2009)
    * Jan 20, 2009  [Open letter to Bloomberg reporters on "economists of all stripes" claim](/blog1/2009/1/20/open-letter-to-bloomberg-reporters-on-economists-of-all-stri.html) Jan 20, 2009 
    * Jan 6, 2009  [Journalism values dead in US MSM, judging from its coverage of Gaza](/blog1/2009/1/6/journalism-values-dead-in-us-msm-judging-from-its-coverage-o.html) Jan 6, 2009 
  * [ December 2008 ](/blog1?month=12-2008)
    * Dec 31, 2008  [My year by the numbers](/blog1/2008/12/31/my-year-by-the-numbers.html) Dec 31, 2008 
    * Dec 15, 2008  [What can one person do?](/blog1/2008/12/15/what-can-one-person-do.html) Dec 15, 2008 
  * [ November 2008 ](/blog1?month=11-2008)
    * Nov 26, 2008  [Washington State Constitution: Article I, Section 1](/blog1/2008/11/26/washington-state-constitution-article-i-section-1.html) Nov 26, 2008 
    * Nov 20, 2008  [A formula to help with the "Inevitable Question"](/blog1/2008/11/20/a-formula-to-help-with-the-inevitable-question.html) Nov 20, 2008 
    * Nov 20, 2008  [The perfect crime is the one not detected](/blog1/2008/11/20/the-perfect-crime-is-the-one-not-detected.html) Nov 20, 2008 
    * Nov 5, 2008  [1% for Obama; 100% for Brother](/blog1/2008/11/5/1-for-obama-100-for-brother.html) Nov 5, 2008 
  * [ October 2008 ](/blog1?month=10-2008)
    * Oct 31, 2008  ["Successes" of intervention; the emotional challenge of looking at the truth](/blog1/2008/10/31/successes-of-intervention-the-emotional-challenge-of-looking.html) Oct 31, 2008 
  * [ August 2008 ](/blog1?month=08-2008)
    * Aug 26, 2008  [REVIEW | Law and Revolution II: Religion, law, and economic transformation](/blog1/2008/8/26/review-law-and-revolution-ii-religion-law-and-economic-trans.html) Aug 26, 2008 
  * [ July 2008 ](/blog1?month=07-2008)
    * Jul 4, 2008  [Who needs war and crime?](/blog1/2008/7/4/who-needs-war-and-crime.html) Jul 4, 2008 
  * [ June 2008 ](/blog1?month=06-2008)
    * Jun 24, 2008  [REVIEW | Unstoppable Global Warming by Fred Singer and Dennis Avery](/blog1/2008/6/24/review-unstoppable-global-warming-by-fred-singer-and-dennis.html) Jun 24, 2008 
    * Jun 17, 2008  [Prices should be falling](/blog1/2008/6/17/prices-should-be-falling.html) Jun 17, 2008 
  * [ April 2008 ](/blog1?month=04-2008)
    * Apr 24, 2008  [The gutting of economics as an anti-state force by fear of offending the powers](/blog1/2008/4/24/the-gutting-of-economics-as-an-anti-state-force-by-fear-of-o.html) Apr 24, 2008 
    * Apr 10, 2008  [The intellectual disease, and part of the inoculation](/blog1/2008/4/10/the-intellectual-disease-and-part-of-the-inoculation.html) Apr 10, 2008 
  * [ February 2008 ](/blog1?month=02-2008)
    * Feb 14, 2008  [Avoid and scurry: FactChecker's Ron Paul smear distracts from the real issues](/blog1/2008/2/14/avoid-and-scurry-factcheckers-ron-paul-smear-distracts-from.html) Feb 14, 2008 

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf) [
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A) [
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf)[
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A)[
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

