![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/beanstalk-ventures-managing-partner-ken-seiff-on-the-dark-side-of-the-internet/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/beanstalk-ventures-managing-partner-ken-seiff-on-the-dark-side-of-the-internet/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/beanstalk-ventures-managing-partner-ken-seiff-on-the-dark-side-of-the-internet/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/beanstalk-ventures-managing-partner-ken-seiff-on-the-dark-side-of-the-internet/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/beanstalk-ventures-managing-partner-ken-seiff-on-the-dark-side-of-the-internet/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/beanstalk-ventures-managing-partner-ken-seiff-on-the-dark-side-of-the-internet/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Beanstalk Ventures Managing Partner Ken Seiff on the dark side of the
Internet](/static/1a433ddf1283d5dc86df8e6df898680a/Orchid_BlogImage_KSeiff.jpg)

# Beanstalk Ventures Managing Partner Ken Seiff on the dark side of the
Internet

Sep 1, 2020  
  

![](/img/podcast-bunny.svg)

 **Follow the White Rabbit podcast**[Start
Listening](https://www.orchid.com/podcast/episode-12-ken-seiff)

On this week's episode of Follow the White Rabbit, we speak with serial
entrepreneur and venture capitalist Ken Seiff -- joined by our own CEO Dr.
Steven Waterhouse, aka Seven. Ken and Seven have been friends and
collaborators for several years and both share a firm belief in the importance
of privacy and a commitment to strengthening this human right.

When he invested in Bitcoin in 2011, and then Ethereum in 2014 -- in both
cases stepping beyond his main retail investment focus -- Ken had already
exited two companies, [Bluefly](https://www.bluefly.com/) and
[Poppin](https://www.poppin.com/), as a founder and raised multiple successful
venture funds. When the time came to raise his third fund, he made the
decision to focus on early-stage blockchain companies, protocols, and
applications that are "making a dent in the universe." The result of this
decision was Beanstalk Ventures, which invests in some of the most exciting
projects in the crypto space.

Ken has known Seven for several years, and the two share much in common. Both
have experienced success as both founders and investors, share a commitment to
furthering the cause of privacy, and agree that the stakes have never been
higher.

"I don't want to be a cassandra and be right about bad things, but [privacy]
has definitely become much of an issue for people in the last few years," says
Seven. The period has seen both increasing surveillance and the tightening of
controls over populations, and moves to strengthen privacy through laws such
as GDPR and CCPA. Now, "people are saying, 'how do I take back my privacy?'"
says Seven.

The issues and questions around privacy "got pulled forward by years as a
result of both covid-19 and the civil unrest" the world has seen this year,
says Ken. "When you look at the impact of 9/11, we saw human rights and
privacy be trampled by new government laws, acts and institutions. There were
huge transformations in government that reduced our rights as a civilization."
The same may happen as a result of covid, he believes. "We're seeing talk of
health passports, and a breakdown of our systems to distribute capital. I
think it's likely there will be some government intervention that tramples on
our right to privacy as a result of the pandemic."

> And the bright side? " _Arguably the best thing to happen to privacy is
> masks,_ " says Ken. Seven agrees: " _Face ID doesn't work when you're using
> a mask._ "

Follow us down the rabbit hole: [listen to the conversation
here](https://www.orchid.com/podcast) or on your favorite streaming service.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Decentralization](/tag/decentralization/)
  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Beanstalk%20Ventures%20Managing%20Partner%20Ken%20Seiff%20on%20the%20dark%20side%20of%20the%20Internet%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fbeanstalk-
ventures-managing-partner-ken-seiff-on-the-dark-side-of-the-internet%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fbeanstalk-
ventures-managing-partner-ken-seiff-on-the-dark-side-of-the-internet%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fbeanstalk-
ventures-managing-partner-ken-seiff-on-the-dark-side-of-the-internet%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/meet-orchid-virtually-at-ethdenver-2021/)

#### Meet Orchid (virtually) at ETHDenver 2021

](/meet-orchid-virtually-at-ethdenver-2021/)

Feb 4, 2021

](/joe-toscano-on-fighting-big-tech-bias-with-data-science/)

[

#### Joe Toscano on Fighting Big Tech Bias With Data Science

](/joe-toscano-on-fighting-big-tech-bias-with-data-science/)

Feb 8, 2021

](/should-you-leave-your-vpn-on-all-the-time/)

[

#### Should you leave your VPN on all the time?

](/should-you-leave-your-vpn-on-all-the-time/)

Feb 10, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

