![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/berkeley-city-council-member-ben-bartlett-on-civil-rights-and-defending-democracy/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/berkeley-city-council-member-ben-bartlett-on-civil-rights-and-defending-democracy/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/berkeley-city-council-member-ben-bartlett-on-civil-rights-and-defending-democracy/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/berkeley-city-council-member-ben-bartlett-on-civil-rights-and-defending-democracy/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/berkeley-city-council-member-ben-bartlett-on-civil-rights-and-defending-democracy/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/berkeley-city-council-member-ben-bartlett-on-civil-rights-and-defending-democracy/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Berkeley City Council Member Ben Bartlett on civil rights and defending
democracy](/static/7417f9bd7f057a0f15279bddf885de8b/Orchid_BlogImage_BBartlett.jpg)

# Berkeley City Council Member Ben Bartlett on civil rights and defending
democracy

Aug 17, 2020  
  

Ben Bartlett has done a lot in his life. The former Vice Mayor of Berkeley, a
serial entrepreneur who lives at the intersection of government, law, and
technology, joins Alex for this week's episode of [Follow the White
Rabbit](https://www.orchid.com/podcast). Currently a member of Berkeley's City
Council, he works closely with institutional investors and policymakers to
ensure that technology and policy come together to empower innovators.

Widely recognized as a trailblazer in the blockchain space, Ben is the
architect of Berkeley's tokenized debt offering (TDO), a node of his [Smart
Path](https://hackernoon.com/the-smart-path-solving-for-zero-assets-with-
blockchain-technology-566ece753da0) blockchain investment thesis. And if
that's not enough, he's a member of the State of California's Blockchain
Working Group, which makes policy recommendations for the state's economy and
government.

For Ben, decentralized technology and blockchain-powered finance are an
essential part of a long, unfinished story. "The human dynamic is woven into
the blockchain story," he says. "All these tools are meant to promote
freedom."

Ben's work bringing the most powerful capabilities of government, technology,
and business together in the cause of freedom is informed by the story of his
own family. His ancestors, who migrated to Berkeley before the Civil War, have
fought for justice and furthered the cause of freedom for generations.

Ben's grandfather broke barriers by becoming one of the first Black realtors
in the Bay Area. Working with the state's first Black assemblyperson, William
Byron Rumford, he helped pass the California Fair Housing Act, which outlawed
the practice of redlining and became the basis for the federal government's
own Fair Housing Act. His uncle was a founder of the Congressional Black
Caucus, and the first Black person to chair the House Armed Services
Committee.

Ben's mother was a founding member of the Black Panther Party, and Ben
attended the Black Panther school. It was here, he says, that he learned how
to think like a free person and how to understand freedom itself. This
understanding -- that freedom is innate to every person -- is what drives all
of his activities, including his work advancing blockchain-based solutions.

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

"Freedom is everything," he says.

> You're born free. Freedom is integral, and I really want people to get back
> into the word freedom, and relish it. We've got to get back into the
> promotion of democracy and freedom. That's the only way we're going to make
> it without falling into total despotism and destruction."

Follow us down the rabbit hole: [listen to the conversation
here](https://www.orchid.com/podcast) or on your favorite streaming service.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Decentralization](/tag/decentralization/)
  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Berkeley%20City%20Council%20Member%20Ben%20Bartlett%20on%20civil%20rights%20and%20defending%20democracy%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fberkeley-
city-council-member-ben-bartlett-on-civil-rights-and-defending-democracy%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fberkeley-
city-council-member-ben-bartlett-on-civil-rights-and-defending-democracy%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fberkeley-
city-council-member-ben-bartlett-on-civil-rights-and-defending-democracy%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/meet-orchid-virtually-at-ethdenver-2021/)

#### Meet Orchid (virtually) at ETHDenver 2021

](/meet-orchid-virtually-at-ethdenver-2021/)

Feb 4, 2021

](/joe-toscano-on-fighting-big-tech-bias-with-data-science/)

[

#### Joe Toscano on Fighting Big Tech Bias With Data Science

](/joe-toscano-on-fighting-big-tech-bias-with-data-science/)

Feb 8, 2021

](/should-you-leave-your-vpn-on-all-the-time/)

[

#### Should you leave your VPN on all the time?

](/should-you-leave-your-vpn-on-all-the-time/)

Feb 10, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

