![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/binance-us-lists-orchid-digital-asset-oxt/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/binance-us-lists-orchid-digital-asset-oxt/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/binance-us-lists-orchid-digital-asset-oxt/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/binance-us-lists-orchid-digital-asset-oxt/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/binance-us-lists-orchid-digital-asset-oxt/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/binance-us-lists-orchid-digital-asset-oxt/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Binance US lists Orchid digital asset
OXT](/static/35e1d469c15da8a34b9d0128dfbef1af/Orchid_BlogImage_BinanceUS.jpg)

# Binance US lists Orchid digital asset OXT

Sep 25, 2020  
  

OXT, the Orchid digital asset, is now available on
[Binance.US](https://www.binance.us/en/home), the United States arm of the
world's largest crypto exchange by trading volume. Binance, which lists the
leading assets in the crypto space, handles [over $7 billion in trades per
day.](https://coinmarketcap.com/exchanges/binance/) The US listing by the
world's top crypto exchange will make it easier for Americans to get OXT and
start exploring the Internet in privacy. The listing makes Orchid available to
the millions of people in the US who use Binance to trade their digital
assets.

Dr. Steven Waterhouse, Orchid's Co-Founder and CEO said: "The decision to add
OXT to Binance.US demonstrates the importance of online privacy for millions
of Americans. The listing is further proof of the strength of Orchid's
decentralized VPN marketplace and its benefits for people using the Internet
everywhere."

Orchid's unique VPN marketplace uses a robust system of incentives to match
supply with demand and ensure ample bandwidth is available. Accounts are
funded with OXT, which is then used to purchase VPN service on a pay-as-you-go
basis. But while Orchid's digital currency is key to the functioning of the
marketplace, individual users can [start using Orchid in seconds](/how-to-
start-using-orchids-crypto-vpn-in-seconds/) using nothing more than an
ordinary credit card. This innovation effectively masks the blockchain, giving
users the benefits of decentralization while providing a seamless user
experience.

Binance has demonstrated [record-breaking
growth](https://coinpedia.org/news/binance-fastest-profitable-
unicorn/#:~:text=Binance%20is%20fastest%20profitable%20startup%20to%20achieve%20unicorn%20status%20in%20history,-By%20David%20Follow&text=Binance%20is%20now%20probably%20the,valuation%20of%20over%20%241%20billion.)
since its founding in 2017. Its listing of OXT, both in the US and globally,
further builds on Orchid's strong momentum.

[Download the Orchid app](https://www.orchid.com/download) to start exploring
the Internet freely.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Partnerships](/tag/partnerships/)
  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Binance%20US%20lists%20Orchid%20digital%20asset%20OXT%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fbinance-
us-lists-orchid-digital-asset-oxt%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fbinance-
us-lists-orchid-digital-asset-oxt%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fbinance-
us-lists-orchid-digital-asset-oxt%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

[

#### OXT is Listed on Vauld

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

Jan 14, 2022

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

