![Close](/img/icons/ico_close.svg?1652976465)

Bitcoin.org is a community funded project, donations are appreciated and used
to improve the website.

Make a donation

Bitcoin.org needs your support!

×

Donate to Bitcoin.org

Use this QR code or address below

[ 3E8ociqZa9mZUSwGdSmAEMAoAxBK3FNDcd
](bitcoin:3E8ociqZa9mZUSwGdSmAEMAoAxBK3FNDcd)

$5.00

(... BTC)

$25.00

(... BTC)

$50.00

(... BTC)

[![Bitcoin](/img/bitcoin-core/bitcoin-core.svg?1652976465)](/en/bitcoin-core/)

  * Features
    * [Overview](/en/bitcoin-core/features/)
    * [Validation](/en/bitcoin-core/features/validation)
    * [Privacy](/en/bitcoin-core/features/privacy)
    * [Requirements](/en/bitcoin-core/features/requirements)
    * [User Interface](/en/bitcoin-core/features/user-interface)
    * [Network Support](/en/bitcoin-core/features/network-support)
  * [Get Help](/en/bitcoin-core/help)
  * Contribute
    * [Bug reports](/en/bitcoin-core/contribute/issues)
    * [Code](/en/development)
    * [Documentation](/en/bitcoin-core/contribute/documentation)
    * [Translations](/en/bitcoin-core/contribute/translations)
    * [Tech Support](/en/bitcoin-core/contribute/support)
  * [News](/en/version-history)
  * [Download](/en/download)

  * English
    *       * [Bahasa Indonesia](/id/)
      * [Català](/ca/)
      * [Dansk](/da/)
      * [Deutsch](/de/)
      * [English](/en/)
      * [Español](/es/)
      * [Français](/fr/)
      * [Italiano](/it/)
      * [Magyar](/hu/)
      * [Nederlands](/nl/)
      * [Polski](/pl/)
      * [Português Brasil](/pt_BR/)
      * [Română](/ro/)
      * [Slovenščina](/sl/)
      * [Srpski](/sr/)
    *       * [Svenska](/sv/)
      * [Türkçe](/tr/)
      * [Ελληνικά](/el/)
      * [български](/bg/)
      * [Русский](/ru/)
      * [Українська](/uk/)
      * [العربية](/ar/)
      * [فارسی](/fa/)
      * [עברית](/he/)
      * [हिन्दी](/hi/)
      * [한국어](/ko/)
      * [日本語](/ja/)
      * [简体中文](/zh_CN/)
      * [繁體中文](/zh_TW/)

Bahasa Indonesia Català Dansk Deutsch English Español Français Italiano Magyar
Nederlands Polski Português Brasil Română Slovenščina Srpski Svenska Türkçe
Ελληνικά български Русский Українська العربية فارسی עברית हिन्दी 한국어 日本語 简体中文
繁體中文 Language: en

[Bitcoin](/en/) > [Core](/en/bitcoin-core/) > [News](/en/version-history) >
0.16.3

# Bitcoin Core version 0.16.3 released

18 September 2018

ALL TOPICS

  * How to Upgrade
    * Downgrading warning
  * Compatibility
  * Notable changes
    * Denial-of-Service vulnerability
    * 0.16.3 change log
      * Consensus
      * RPC and other APIs
      * Miscellaneous
      * Documentation
  * Credits

Bitcoin Core version 0.16.3 is now available from:

<https://bitcoincore.org/bin/bitcoin-core-0.16.3/>

This is a new minor version release, with various bugfixes.

Please report bugs using the issue tracker at GitHub:

<https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues>

To receive security and update notifications, please subscribe to:

<https://bitcoincore.org/en/list/announcements/join/>

# How to Upgrade

If you are running an older version, shut it down. Wait until it has
completely shut down (which might take a few minutes for older versions), then
run the installer (on Windows) or just copy over `/Applications/Bitcoin-Qt`
(on Mac) or `bitcoind`/`bitcoin-qt` (on Linux).

The first time you run version 0.15.0 or newer, your chainstate database will
be converted to a new format, which will take anywhere from a few minutes to
half an hour, depending on the speed of your machine.

Note that the block database format also changed in version 0.8.0 and there is
no automatic upgrade code from before version 0.8 to version 0.15.0 or higher.
Upgrading directly from 0.7.x and earlier without re-downloading the
blockchain is not supported. However, as usual, old wallet versions are still
supported.

## Downgrading warning

Wallets created in 0.16 and later are not compatible with versions prior to
0.16 and will not work if you try to use newly created wallets in older
versions. Existing wallets that were created with older versions are not
affected by this.

# Compatibility

Bitcoin Core is extensively tested on multiple operating systems using the
Linux kernel, macOS 10.8+, and Windows Vista and later. Windows XP is not
supported.

Bitcoin Core should also work on most other Unix-like systems but is not
frequently tested on them.

# Notable changes

## Denial-of-Service vulnerability

A denial-of-service vulnerability (CVE-2018-17144) exploitable by miners has
been discovered in Bitcoin Core versions 0.14.0 up to 0.16.2. It is
recommended to upgrade any of the vulnerable versions to 0.16.3 as soon as
possible.

## 0.16.3 change log

### Consensus

  * [#14249](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/14249) [`696b936`](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/commit/696b936) Fix crash bug with duplicate inputs within a transaction (TheBlueMatt, sdaftuar)

### RPC and other APIs

  * [#13547](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/13547) [`212ef1f`](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/commit/212ef1f) Make `signrawtransaction*` give an error when amount is needed but missing (ajtowns)

### Miscellaneous

  * [#13655](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/13655) [`1cdbea7`](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/commit/1cdbea7) bitcoinconsensus: invalid flags error should be set to `bitcoinconsensus_err` (afk11)

### Documentation

  * [#13844](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/13844) [`11b9dbb`](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/commit/11b9dbb) correct the help output for -prune (hebasto)

# Credits

Thanks to everyone who directly contributed to this release:

  * Anthony Towns
  * Hennadii Stepanov
  * Matt Corallo
  * Suhas Daftuar
  * Thomas Kerin
  * Wladimir J. van der Laan

And to those that reported security issues:

  * (anonymous reporter)

[Go back to the version history](/en/version-history)

[ ![Bitcoin](/img/icons/logo-footer.svg?1652976465) ](/en/)

Support Bitcoin.org: Donate

[3E8ociqZa9mZUSwGdSmAEMAoAxBK3FNDcd](bitcoin:3E8ociqZa9mZUSwGdSmAEMAoAxBK3FNDcd)

Introduction:

  * [Individuals](/en/bitcoin-for-individuals)
  * [Businesses](/en/bitcoin-for-businesses)
  * [Developers](https://developer.bitcoin.org/)
  * [Getting started](/en/getting-started)
  * [How it works](/en/how-it-works)
  * [You need to know](/en/you-need-to-know)
  * [White paper](/en/bitcoin-paper)

Resources:

  * [Resources](/en/resources)
  * [Exchanges](/en/exchanges)
  * [Community](/en/community)
  * [Vocabulary ](/en/vocabulary)
  * [Events](/en/events)
  * [Bitcoin Core](/en/bitcoin-core/)

Participate:

  * [Support Bitcoin](/en/support-bitcoin)
  * [Buy Bitcoin](/en/buy)
  * [Running a full node](/en/full-node)
  * [Development](/en/development)

Other:

[Avoid Scams](/en/scams) [Legal](/en/legal) [Privacy Policy](/en/privacy)
[Press](/en/press) [About bitcoin.org](/en/about-us) [Blog](/en/blog)

© Bitcoin Project 2009-2022 Released under the [MIT
license](http://opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)  
Bitcoin Core pages on Bitcoin.org are [maintained separately](/en/bitcoin-
core/about-site) from the rest of the site.

[Network Status](/en/alerts)

  * English
    *       * [Bahasa Indonesia](/id/)
      * [Català](/ca/)
      * [Dansk](/da/)
      * [Deutsch](/de/)
      * [English](/en/)
      * [Español](/es/)
      * [Français](/fr/)
      * [Italiano](/it/)
      * [Magyar](/hu/)
      * [Nederlands](/nl/)
      * [Polski](/pl/)
      * [Português Brasil](/pt_BR/)
      * [Română](/ro/)
      * [Slovenščina](/sl/)
      * [Srpski](/sr/)
    *       * [Svenska](/sv/)
      * [Türkçe](/tr/)
      * [Ελληνικά](/el/)
      * [български](/bg/)
      * [Русский](/ru/)
      * [Українська](/uk/)
      * [العربية](/ar/)
      * [فارسی](/fa/)
      * [עברית](/he/)
      * [हिन्दी](/hi/)
      * [한국어](/ko/)
      * [日本語](/ja/)
      * [简体中文](/zh_CN/)
      * [繁體中文](/zh_TW/)

Bahasa Indonesia Català Dansk Deutsch English Español Français Italiano Magyar
Nederlands Polski Português Brasil Română Slovenščina Srpski Svenska Türkçe
Ελληνικά български Русский Українська العربية فارسی עברית हिन्दी 한국어 日本語 简体中文
繁體中文 en

