![Close](/img/icons/ico_close.svg?1652976465)

Bitcoin.org is a community funded project, donations are appreciated and used
to improve the website.

Make a donation

Bitcoin.org needs your support!

×

Donate to Bitcoin.org

Use this QR code or address below

[ 3E8ociqZa9mZUSwGdSmAEMAoAxBK3FNDcd
](bitcoin:3E8ociqZa9mZUSwGdSmAEMAoAxBK3FNDcd)

$5.00

(... BTC)

$25.00

(... BTC)

$50.00

(... BTC)

[![Bitcoin](/img/bitcoin-core/bitcoin-core.svg?1652976465)](/en/bitcoin-core/)

  * Features
    * [Overview](/en/bitcoin-core/features/)
    * [Validation](/en/bitcoin-core/features/validation)
    * [Privacy](/en/bitcoin-core/features/privacy)
    * [Requirements](/en/bitcoin-core/features/requirements)
    * [User Interface](/en/bitcoin-core/features/user-interface)
    * [Network Support](/en/bitcoin-core/features/network-support)
  * [Get Help](/en/bitcoin-core/help)
  * Contribute
    * [Bug reports](/en/bitcoin-core/contribute/issues)
    * [Code](/en/development)
    * [Documentation](/en/bitcoin-core/contribute/documentation)
    * [Translations](/en/bitcoin-core/contribute/translations)
    * [Tech Support](/en/bitcoin-core/contribute/support)
  * [News](/en/version-history)
  * [Download](/en/download)

  * English
    *       * [Bahasa Indonesia](/id/)
      * [Català](/ca/)
      * [Dansk](/da/)
      * [Deutsch](/de/)
      * [English](/en/)
      * [Español](/es/)
      * [Français](/fr/)
      * [Italiano](/it/)
      * [Magyar](/hu/)
      * [Nederlands](/nl/)
      * [Polski](/pl/)
      * [Português Brasil](/pt_BR/)
      * [Română](/ro/)
      * [Slovenščina](/sl/)
      * [Srpski](/sr/)
    *       * [Svenska](/sv/)
      * [Türkçe](/tr/)
      * [Ελληνικά](/el/)
      * [български](/bg/)
      * [Русский](/ru/)
      * [Українська](/uk/)
      * [العربية](/ar/)
      * [فارسی](/fa/)
      * [עברית](/he/)
      * [हिन्दी](/hi/)
      * [한국어](/ko/)
      * [日本語](/ja/)
      * [简体中文](/zh_CN/)
      * [繁體中文](/zh_TW/)

Bahasa Indonesia Català Dansk Deutsch English Español Français Italiano Magyar
Nederlands Polski Português Brasil Română Slovenščina Srpski Svenska Türkçe
Ελληνικά български Русский Українська العربية فارسی עברית हिन्दी 한국어 日本語 简体中文
繁體中文 Language: en

[Bitcoin](/en/) > [Core](/en/bitcoin-core/) > [News](/en/version-history) >
0.7.2

# Bitcoin-Qt version 0.7.2 released

14 December 2012

Bitcoin-Qt version 0.7.2 is now available from:
<http://sourceforge.net/projects/bitcoin/files/Bitcoin/bitcoin-0.7.2>

This is a bug-fix minor release.

Please report bugs using the issue tracker at github:
<https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues>

## How to Upgrade

If you are running an older version, shut it down. Wait until it has
completely shut down (which might take a few minutes for older versions), then
run the installer (on Windows) or just copy over /Applications/Bitcoin-Qt (on
Mac) or bitcoind/bitcoin-qt (on Linux).

If you were running on Linux with a version that might have been compiled with
a different version of Berkeley DB (for example, if you were using an Ubuntu
PPA version), then run the old version again with the -detachdb argument and
shut it down; if you do not, then the new version will not be able to read the
database files and will exit with an error.

Explanation of -detachdb (and the new “stop true” RPC command): The Berkeley
DB database library stores data in both “.dat” and “log” files, so the
database is always in a consistent state, even in case of power failure or
other sudden shutdown. The format of the “.dat” files is portable between
different versions of Berkeley DB, but the “log” files are not– even minor
version differences may have incompatible “log” files. The -detachdb option
moves any pending changes from the “log” files to the “blkindex.dat” file for
maximum compatibility, but makes shutdown much slower. Note that the
“wallet.dat” file is always detached, and versions prior to 0.6.0 detached all
databases at shutdown.

## Bug fixes

  * Prevent RPC `move` from deadlocking. This was caused by trying to lock the database twice.

  * Fix use-after-free problems in initialization and shutdown, the latter of which caused Bitcoin-Qt to crash on Windows when exiting.

  * Correct library linking so building on Windows natively works.

  * Avoid a race condition and out-of-bounds read in block creation/mining code.

  * Improve platform compatibility quirks, including fix for 100% CPU utilization on FreeBSD 9.

  * A few minor corrections to error handling, and updated translations.

  * OSX 10.5 supported again

* * *

Thanks to everybody who contributed to this release:

  * Alex
  * dansmith
  * Gavin Andresen
  * Gregory Maxwell
  * Jeff Garzik
  * Luke Dashjr
  * Philip Kaufmann
  * Pieter Wuille
  * Wladimir J. van der Laan
  * grimd34th

[Go back to the version history](/en/version-history)

[ ![Bitcoin](/img/icons/logo-footer.svg?1652976465) ](/en/)

Support Bitcoin.org: Donate

[3E8ociqZa9mZUSwGdSmAEMAoAxBK3FNDcd](bitcoin:3E8ociqZa9mZUSwGdSmAEMAoAxBK3FNDcd)

Introduction:

  * [Individuals](/en/bitcoin-for-individuals)
  * [Businesses](/en/bitcoin-for-businesses)
  * [Developers](https://developer.bitcoin.org/)
  * [Getting started](/en/getting-started)
  * [How it works](/en/how-it-works)
  * [You need to know](/en/you-need-to-know)
  * [White paper](/en/bitcoin-paper)

Resources:

  * [Resources](/en/resources)
  * [Exchanges](/en/exchanges)
  * [Community](/en/community)
  * [Vocabulary ](/en/vocabulary)
  * [Events](/en/events)
  * [Bitcoin Core](/en/bitcoin-core/)

Participate:

  * [Support Bitcoin](/en/support-bitcoin)
  * [Buy Bitcoin](/en/buy)
  * [Running a full node](/en/full-node)
  * [Development](/en/development)

Other:

[Avoid Scams](/en/scams) [Legal](/en/legal) [Privacy Policy](/en/privacy)
[Press](/en/press) [About bitcoin.org](/en/about-us) [Blog](/en/blog)

© Bitcoin Project 2009-2022 Released under the [MIT
license](http://opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)  
Bitcoin Core pages on Bitcoin.org are [maintained separately](/en/bitcoin-
core/about-site) from the rest of the site.

[Network Status](/en/alerts)

  * English
    *       * [Bahasa Indonesia](/id/)
      * [Català](/ca/)
      * [Dansk](/da/)
      * [Deutsch](/de/)
      * [English](/en/)
      * [Español](/es/)
      * [Français](/fr/)
      * [Italiano](/it/)
      * [Magyar](/hu/)
      * [Nederlands](/nl/)
      * [Polski](/pl/)
      * [Português Brasil](/pt_BR/)
      * [Română](/ro/)
      * [Slovenščina](/sl/)
      * [Srpski](/sr/)
    *       * [Svenska](/sv/)
      * [Türkçe](/tr/)
      * [Ελληνικά](/el/)
      * [български](/bg/)
      * [Русский](/ru/)
      * [Українська](/uk/)
      * [العربية](/ar/)
      * [فارسی](/fa/)
      * [עברית](/he/)
      * [हिन्दी](/hi/)
      * [한국어](/ko/)
      * [日本語](/ja/)
      * [简体中文](/zh_CN/)
      * [繁體中文](/zh_TW/)

Bahasa Indonesia Català Dansk Deutsch English Español Français Italiano Magyar
Nederlands Polski Português Brasil Română Slovenščina Srpski Svenska Türkçe
Ελληνικά български Русский Українська العربية فارسی עברית हिन्दी 한국어 日本語 简体中文
繁體中文 en

