Skip to content

##  [ Caitlin Long ](https://caitlin-long.com)

Menu

  * [Home](https://caitlin-long.com/)
  * [Disclaimer](https://caitlin-long.com/disclaimer/)
  * [Blockchain](https://caitlin-long.com/category/blockchain/)
  * [Economics](https://caitlin-long.com/category/economics/)
  * [Pensions](https://caitlin-long.com/category/pensions/)
  * [About Caitlin](https://caitlin-long.com/about-caitlin/)

![Article about blockchain published by Caitlin
 ](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw==)![Article
about blockchain published by Caitlin
 ](https://secureservercdn.net/198.71.233.179/69l.92a.myftpupload.com/wp-
content/uploads/bb-plugin/cache/forbes_16-panorama.png)

#  Bitcoin, The Dollar And Facebook’s Cryptocurrency: Price Volatility Versus
Systemic Volatility

June 29, 2019 / [pwsadmin](https://caitlin-long.com/author/pwsadmin/) / [No
Comments](https://caitlin-long.com/bitcoin-the-dollar-and-facebooks-
cryptocurrency-price-volatility-versus-systemic-volatility/#respond)

Bitcoin’s price swung wildly this week, causing many to conclude bitcoin is
unstable. But this conclusion misses a key nuance: Bitcoin was designed for
_systemic stability_ , not for  _price stability_. Indeed, as a system Bitcoin
is highly stable even though its price may not be. Bitcoin is the opposite of
fiat currencies, which generally exhibit price-stability but are susceptible
to periodic bouts of financial system instability. By extension, stablecoins
that track fiat currencies, such as Facebook’s new cryptocurrency (Libra),
fall into the same category as fiat currencies—they’re designed for price
stability, not systemic stability, and are exposed to the same risk of
periodic instability of traditional financial systems.

Can a monetary system be both price-stable and systemically-stable? Probably
not, and [here’s](https://www.forbes.com/sites/caitlinlong/2019/06/29/bitcoin-
the-dollar-and-facebooks-cryptocurrency-price-volatility-versus-systemic-
volatility/#1aa3f14d88b8) why.  

Posted in [Blockchain](https://caitlin-long.com/category/blockchain/)

![CAITLIN
LONG](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw==)![CAITLIN
LONG](https://secureservercdn.net/198.71.233.179/69l.92a.myftpupload.com/wp-
content/uploads/2019/12/Caitlin_Hero.png)

###  [ CAITLIN LONG ](/about-caitlin/)

Bitcoin/blockchain, ex-Wyoming Blockchain Task Force, 22-year Wall Street
veteran.

###  Disclaimer

This web site is limited to the dissemination of general information,
investment-related information, publications, and links.

Please consult important additional information and qualifications
[HERE](/disclaimer/).

View [**Privacy Policy**](/privacy-policy/) and [**Terms of Use**](/terms-of-
use/)

###  Connect with me on Social Media

[ __](https://www.facebook.com/Caitlin-Long-192638687800053/ "Facebook") [
__](https://twitter.com/caitlinlong_/ "Twitter") [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/authwall?trk=ripf&trkInfo=AQHrFIBCEKp8
RgAAAW6kZK5gKGBfoaOL4RcdaPrSapGmg3lV3BqVJKngH8DyEZG16po6ZlgMjS-
cnC8oJTie6XRHg9hLwQd31jCcPE_5JRA65SJ4TlOGMAlTj5tJMLk
1M7xEtE=&originalReferer=https://caitlin-long.com/&sessionRedirect=https%3A
%2F%2Fwww.linkedin.com%2Fin%2Fcaitlin-long-356b383a%2F "LinkedIn")

## Search Posts

[Tweets by CaitlinLong_](https://twitter.com/CaitlinLong_)

## Categories

  * [Blockchain](https://caitlin-long.com/category/blockchain/)
  * [Economics](https://caitlin-long.com/category/economics/)
  * [homeblog](https://caitlin-long.com/category/homeblog/)
  * [Pensions](https://caitlin-long.com/category/pensions/)

## Recent Posts

  * [An Update from Wyoming](https://caitlin-long.com/an-update-from-wyoming/) November 20, 2019
  * [The Real Story Of The Repo Market Meltdown, And What It Means For Bitcoin](https://caitlin-long.com/the-real-story-of-the-repo-market-meltdown-and-what-it-means-for-bitcoin/) September 23, 2019
  * [WyoHackathon 2019 Takeaways: Kids Rule, Hardware Wallets Fly and Wyoming Wins](https://caitlin-long.com/wyohackathon-2019-takeaways-kids-rule-hardware-wallets-fly-and-wyoming-wins/) September 23, 2019
  * [Facebook’s Cryptocurrency, Libra: Senate Banking Testimony](https://caitlin-long.com/facebooks-cryptocurrency-libra-senate-banking-testimony/) July 15, 2019
  * [Bitcoin, The Dollar And Facebook’s Cryptocurrency: Price Volatility Versus Systemic Volatility](https://caitlin-long.com/bitcoin-the-dollar-and-facebooks-cryptocurrency-price-volatility-versus-systemic-volatility/) June 29, 2019

## Post navigation

[<- What Facebook’s Cryptocurrency Means: 6 Predictions](https://caitlin-
long.com/what-facebooks-cryptocurrency-means-6-predictions/)

[Facebook’s Cryptocurrency, Libra: Senate Banking Testimony
->](https://caitlin-long.com/facebooks-cryptocurrency-libra-senate-banking-
testimony/)

[ __](https://www.facebook.com/Caitlin-Long-192638687800053/ "Facebook") [
__](https://twitter.com/caitlinlong_/ "Twitter") [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/authwall?trk=ripf&trkInfo=AQHrFIBCEKp8
RgAAAW6kZK5gKGBfoaOL4RcdaPrSapGmg3lV3BqVJKngH8DyEZG16po6ZlgMjS-
cnC8oJTie6XRHg9hLwQd31jCcPE_5JRA65SJ4TlOGMAlTj5tJMLk
1M7xEtE=&originalReferer=https://caitlin-long.com/&sessionRedirect=https%3A
%2F%2Fwww.linkedin.com%2Fin%2Fcaitlin-long-356b383a%2F "LinkedIn")

  * [Home](https://caitlin-long.com/)
  * [Disclaimer](https://caitlin-long.com/disclaimer/)
  * [Blockchain](https://caitlin-long.com/category/blockchain/)
  * [Economics](https://caitlin-long.com/category/economics/)
  * [Pensions](https://caitlin-long.com/category/pensions/)
  * [About Caitlin](https://caitlin-long.com/about-caitlin/)
  * [Privacy Policy](https://caitlin-long.com/privacy-policy/)
  * [Terms of Use](https://caitlin-long.com/terms-of-use/)

© 2019, Caitlin Long. All Rights Reserved.

[![GoDaddy Web
Design](//nebula.wsimg.com/aadc63d8e8dbd533470bdc4e350bc4af?AccessKeyId=B7351D786AE96FEF6EBB&disposition=0&alloworigin=1)](https://www.godaddy.com/websites/web-
design)

Scroll To Top __

