[![](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/aecfa9ee0e182f2b64970b1000095ae27311f991/61d30/images/bisq-
logo.svg)](/)

  * [Getting Started](/getting-started)
  * [Bisq DAO](/dao)
  * [Dashboard](/dashboard)
  * [FAQ![](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/2d42e4fc70e3303166d3d5232f51b589daf6b75a/5bcfc/images/external-link-b.svg)](https://bisq.wiki/Frequently_asked_questions)
  * [Markets![](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/2d42e4fc70e3303166d3d5232f51b589daf6b75a/5bcfc/images/external-link-b.svg)](https://bisq.markets)
  * [Blog](/blog)
  * [Wiki](https://bisq.wiki)
  * [Downloads](/downloads)
  * Learn More 

[Wiki](https://bisq.wiki)

[Blog](/blog/)

  * Downloads 

![Download
Bisq](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/d4406664edde23cf00cf1ebef64d3f395e8d7ded/24e25/images/icon-
download-g.svg) ![Download
Bisq](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/b8d9c87e21582eb86f3ff1ccd7093e272c887ed3/f59ed/images/icon-
download-w.svg) All Downloads

[Go to Downloads Page](/downloads)

![Download Bisq for
Windows](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/2d8ed6f838a6740327ac0bfbc9d34a6222ad8cab/43c6e/images/icon-
windows-g.svg) ![Download Bisq for
Windows](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/3a851421cfcbebcdef08fbc209fb5a0da2a70736/14a50/images/icon-
windows-w.svg) Download for Windows

[.exe](https://bisq.network/downloads/v1.9.1/Bisq-64bit-1.9.1.exe)

![Download Bisq for
Mac](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/38181ed54cc587a97ad75697d593635645b674f4/d1ea0/images/icon-
apple-g.svg) ![Download Bisq for
Mac](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/5cd0e9dca60e40997f7d94d07ac4f6667d247467/90639/images/icon-
apple-w.svg) Download for Mac

[.dmg](https://bisq.network/downloads/v1.9.1/Bisq-1.9.1.dmg)

![Download Bisq for
Debian/Ubuntu](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/2d849da4d49c4139d42f9276d498e9aa60543c60/491f8/images/icon-
ubuntu-g.svg) ![Download Bisq for
Debian/Ubuntu](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/9f4214df50234a6c97bed387f605bcbe4278ed22/81623/images/icon-
ubuntu-w.svg) Download for Debian/Ubuntu

[.deb](https://bisq.network/downloads/v1.9.1/Bisq-64bit-1.9.1.deb)

![Download Bisq for Red
Hat/Fedora](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/194b41b5c3b7da783a7b0f81357a76876970cecd/56b03/images/icon-
fedora-g.svg) ![Download Bisq for Red
Hat/Fedora](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/f6c6373024a9ae9282cc64629ed72bce52156a00/c473d/images/icon-
fedora-w.svg) Download for Red Hat/Fedora

[.rpm](https://github.com/bisq-
network/bisq/releases/download/v1.9.1/Bisq-64bit-1.9.1.rpm)

![Download Bisq for Arch
Linux](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/a3b874f13b834d1ae8410f3a7aa28f63b3ba7057/3ac20/images/icon-
arch-linux-g.svg) ![Download Bisq for Arch
Linux](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/1b10cb79ad5f4e508a6bd70f746b4d8389085ff0/e81a5/images/icon-
arch-linux-w.svg) Download for Arch Linux

[Arch User Repo](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/bisq/)

![Source
Code](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/faa79a363ac9481782a1dde54c1cc146168af7b5/6be22/images/icon-
opensource-g.svg) ![Source
Code](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/17739bf047281f7bf2ca2d9adc347cc1868c25b1/572c9/images/icon-
opensource-w.svg) Source Code

[zip](https://bisq.network/downloads/archive/v1.9.1.zip) |
[tar.gz](https://bisq.network/downloads/archive/v1.9.1.tar.gz)

![Release
Notes](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/96ab2a8a2fabd654d028369ddfac111a783e6015/ece45/images/icon-
notes-g.svg) ![Release
Notes](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/4cc50026b4a44676a15437a5f51343ed5d980b6b/78ce0/images/icon-
notes-w.svg) Release Notes

[v1.9.1](https://bisq.network/downloads/v1.9.1)

![Verification](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/9c834f0cfa968bc349446f90e6cf8f3f942361bf/32221/images/icon-
verification-g.svg)
![Verification](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/7e6868ce363482924c478d454f9b8e8a3085f6fb/8d8b6/images/icon-
verification-w.svg) Verification

[PGP signatures](https://bisq.network/downloads/v1.9.1) | [PGP Public
Key](https://bisq.network/downloads/v1.9.1/29CDFD3B.asc)

  * ![](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/77fa3b243c4c6235a4f1cb1808fa0369e9fadf5a/ac5d5/images/search.svg)

  * ![mode toggle](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/b4b073292e92fb2a2d5b8174e0f870d6e9ac518e/92371/images/mode-toggle.svg)

[![](https://bisq.network/images/logo-rss.svg)](/blog/feed.atom)

## [Bitcoin and the Store of Value Narrative](/blog/bitcoin-and-the-store-of-
value-narrative/)

Posted by Manuel Polavieja on 4 June 2019

* * *

_Manuel writes at[juandemariana.org](https://www.juandemariana.org), is a
perpetual student of monetary theory, and is a Bitcoin quasi-maximalist (he is
almost there)._

_If you’d like to contribute a post, please reach out
on[Keybase](https://keybase.io/team/bisq)!_

* * *

Since Bitcoin’s inception, there has been an endless debate about the
explanation of its value. What backs bitcoin? Does bitcoin have intrinsic
value? Why is bitcoin demanded? To answer these questions many Bitcoin
advocates refer to the principles established by the Austrian School of
Economics concluding that bitcoin’s main source of value is being a store of
value. I believe this conclusion is the result of the toxic block size debate
by which both sides of the debate wrongly narrowed the concept of a medium of
exchange to money (cash).

To make my position clear about the block size, I absolutely advocate for
small blocks. I believe that running a Bitcoin full node should be as easy and
affordable as possible so the system is not only decentralized but fully
distributed where final users have full sovereignty over their bitcoin.

Going back to the principles of the Austrian school, the most widely followed
monetary theorist of this school, Ludwig Von Mises, developed the [Regression
Theorem](https://wiki.mises.org/wiki/Regression_theorem) in his book titled
[“The Theory of Money and Credit”](https://mises.org/library/theory-money-and-
credit). The theorem states that for an economic good to be money it must
primarily have other non-monetary uses before it can become money. Bitcoin
does not fit this description. Some economists like [Block and
Davidson](https://mises.org/library/bitcoin-regression-theorem-and-emergence-
new-medium-exchange) have tried to reinterpret this theorem in order to
shoehorn Bitcoin into it by claiming that the Regression Theorem applies only
to barter economies and does not apply when there are already monetary prices.
I don’t think that interpretation is correct and it is also incoherent in and
of itself (see [Juan Ramón Rallo rebuttal](https://juanramonrallo.com/mises-y-
block-se-equivocan-sobre-sus-teoremas-regresivos-del-dinero/)).

Mises’ Regression Theorem is based on the observations made by Carl Menger in
his seminal work [“On the Origins of Money”](https://mises-
media.s3.amazonaws.com/On%20the%20Origins%20of%20Money_5.pdf) where he
describes the process of how money arose from commodities. But, what Menger
did was make a historical observation, not a theoretical explanation. It was
Mises who wrongly took those observations into theory with his unfortunate
Regression Theorem.

In an attempt to dodge the Regression Theorem debate others have retorted with
Nick Szabo’s views in his remarkable essay [“Shelling out: The Origins of
Money”](https://nakamotoinstitute.org/shelling-out/), using the collectible
and store of value arguments. Szabo’s excellent work is also a historical
explanation like Menger, but more detailed and precise from an anthropological
point of view.

I shall not spend much time rebutting the claim that bitcoin’s source of value
at the very beginning was being a collectible in the literal meaning of the
term. That was not what Szabo meant and it is not credible at all to say that
the first bitcoin owners demanded it because it was a whimsy, rather than
demanding it because they thought it could potentially become a medium of
exchange. Bitcoin’s first owners knew well why Bitcoin was invented and for
what purpose it was intended.

A popular [narrative amongst Bitcoin
supporters](https://medium.com/@vijayboyapati/the-bullish-case-for-
bitcoin-6ecc8bdecc1) that apply Szabo’s views claim that money **always**
evolves through the following stages:

  1. Collectible  

  2. Store of Value  

  3. Medium of exchange  

  4. Unit of account

In my view, the above narrative is scientifically inconsistent and as such, it
could be easily utilized against Bitcoin by academia and governments to spread
negative propaganda like accusing Bitcoin of being a reckless speculative
bubble and that there is no scientific support of its value other than “It’s
valuable because people value it”. It’s not that I fear too much that they can
stop anything - I believe Bitcoin will thrive or not regardless of what haters
and supporters claim - though, they might be able to slow down the adoption
process a bit.

The narrative is scientifically inconsistent because it deviates from the
[Subjective Theory of
Value](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subjective_theory_of_value) as it puts
value in front of utility. I don’t want to claim that this theory is set in
stone but, if it has to be amended, it has to be very well justified. In my
view, there are absolutely no grounds for amendment within the above
narrative. As I fully reject the collectible whimsy argument to explain
Bitcoin bootstrapping, the only argument left is that the collectible is
valuable because it is a store of value, which is obviously circular and
therefore explains nothing. Game theory does not resolve that circularity
either. Moreover, it is also confusing that the narrative assigns to store of
value the properties which belong to medium of exchange (portable, fungible,
divisible, quickly verifiable, etc).

Here I will explain how Bitcoin fits very well within the Subjective Theory of
Value and also within the historical stages of exchange described by Carl
Menger. Leaving apart deferred exchanges (i.e. credit), the basic first three
stages of spot exchange are the following:

  1. **Direct exchange** : Barter.

  2. **Indirect exchange** : When exchange is done in two steps using an intermediate good. Szabo’s concept of “collectible” is a particular case within this category, which is using goods for long term indirect exchange.

  3. **Money** : When a good used for indirect exchange is widely accepted.

We would deal separately with the concept of Unit of Account because this
function fulfills the need for economic calculus which is an extremely
important need, but different than fulfilling the need for exchange. Regarding
the store of value function, it is not exclusive to money or proto-money, as
all economic goods are by definition a better or worse store of value.

So going back to Menger, we find that to overcome the problems of direct
exchange (barter) humans began to use some goods for indirect exchange, that
is, demanding or hoarding a good not for consumption but for exchanging it for
other goods in the future. For example, if they had the possibility to decide
on hoarding cereal or eggs, it is reasonable that they chose cereal as it is
more durable and divisible. As the concept of a medium of exchange is still
not imaginable for them, they wouldn’t be able to assess how cereal could be
demanded by others to use it also for indirect exchange. They would just rely
on others demanding it as food in the future (durable) while they could
potentially use it for several different exchanges (divisible). **Once this
experience is repeated, the concept of medium of exchange clearly reveals
itself and it is immediately picked up by human entrepreneurship to be further
exploited.**

Each individual might choose completely different goods for indirect exchange
depending on what they have available and when they are expecting to need them
for exchange, so a convergence between individuals to choose the same good for
this purpose is initially not necessary. The convergence would come naturally
afterward, once humans have discovered the concept of medium of exchange, and
that’s when the most salable goods begin to compete for being a generalized
medium of exchange (i.e. Money). The game theory concept of [focal
point](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Focal_point_\(game_theory\)) kicks in at
this stage reinforcing the demand for the most salable good.

A key concept in this debate is the term of the exchange. For a good to be
money it is implicit that it serves well its purpose in the short term. This
is also implicit in the words “most salable” within Menger’s definition of
money _“the **most salable** of commodities”_, which [Carlos
Bondone](http://www.carlosbondone.com/en/theory-of-economic-time/economic-
theory/development-of-concepts.html) has generalized to “the most salable
present economic good”. If it only serves its purpose in longer terms it might
not be money but, it would still be a medium of indirect exchange.

But, in this post, we are interested in the bootstrapping process to achieve
that salability. Let’s refer back to the stage of goods being just a medium of
indirect exchange. I stated above that humans would rely on cereal’s utility
as food to foresee its future demand because the concept of medium of indirect
exchange would still be an unknown abstraction for them. If we fast forward to
a context where humans already conceptually grasp a medium of exchange, why
should they not be able to foresee the monetary demand of any good, regardless
if it has other uses or not– that is, its ease of transport, divisibility,
durability, and unfalsifiability. This is clearly the case for Szabo’s
“collectibles” and also Bitcoin’s case. From a historical point of view, I
find it rather unlikely that humans used otherwise useless goods as a medium
of exchange without first having discovered the medium of exchange concept
through other consumptive goods, but it is certainly theoretically possible.

In the same way that discovering the concepts of adding and subtracting
quantities is more natural through comparing physical quantities (i.e. beads,
as in an abacus), that does not necessarily prevent humans to skip that step
and directly invent written numerals and ledgers. Even though we once used the
abacus and its sexagesimal numeral system, it does not mean that all other
numeral systems must first be accounted through the sexagesimal system.. We
must not confuse the supporting medium by which we historically experiment and
discover a concept (i.e. beads or commodities) with the concept itself
(arithmetics or Money).

If something arises (bitcoin) that can fulfill the sole use case of a medium
of exchange better than the incumbents (barter, salt, gold, fiat etc.), then
that is where the demand can be found. Can this demand can be speculative?
Yes, it is speculation on the possibility of the good becoming money in the
future.

Mises had the following concern regarding new monetary goods that have no
other use than a medium of exchange: ( _Human Action_ – Chapter 17 section 4 –
“The determination of purchasing power of money”)

> “A value judgment is, with reference to money, only possible if it can be
> based on appraisement. The acceptance of a new kind of money presupposes
> that the thing in question already has previous exchange value on account of
> the services it can render directly to consumption or production. Neither a
> buyer nor a seller could judge the value of a monetary unit if he had no
> information about its exchange value–its purchasing power–in the immediate
> past.”

So, how is it that a completely new monetary good’s price is discovered? That
is the least of the problems. The owner of bitcoin might arbitrarily ask for a
price and buyers can accept it or bid at a lower price until they agree on the
same price. At that point, the first exchange takes place. In the beginning,
the price might be totally erratic, but as more market participants are
interested, demand and supply builds and the price stabilizes. This continuous
auction process is indeed how prices of goods have always been discovered and
it is nothing special for money nor anything new that Bitcoin brought. The
fact that many other speculators join in later just for the “lambos” without
caring about Bitcoin’s monetary utility is completely irrelevant in relation
to bitcoin’s primary source of value. A subject for another blog post is
whether or not speculators and traders are beneficial for Bitcoin.

**Conclusion**

Bitcoin’s origin of value can be fully explained on the grounds of the
subjective theory of value and Menger’s definition of money. Because the need
for exchange is a basic human need, any good that has the qualities to satisfy
that need, (even if it only satisfies that one need), is useful and therefore
subject to being demanded.

  
  
  
[« Back to Blog](/blog)

##### Bisq mobile notification App

[![Get it on Google
Play](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/58903c33bc9a9336a91f11a57d6778fd6ed5e3eb/58b13/images/badge_google_play.svg)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.joachimneumann.bisq)
[![Get it on the App
Store](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/5624be47c56a92d2a26a6c51ac5fcbe1bc691167/d787d/images/badge_app_store.svg)](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/bisq-
mobile/id1424420411)

© 2022 Bisq

* * *

##### Resources

  * [Roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/bisq-network/projects/3)
  * [Contribute](https://bisq.wiki/Contributor_checklist)

  * [Benefactors](/benefactors)
  * [Market Data API](https://bisq.markets/api/)

* * *

##### Join the Community

[
![github](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/b13626028cd1a6cfc522435f90f212a85e21ee15/9bb90/images/community/github_w.svg)
](https://github.com/bisq-network "GitHub") [
![twitter](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/8fa6935a1113347a49000fcbf16390014f848876/d2e38/images/community/twitter_w.svg)
](https://twitter.com/bisq_network "Twitter") [
![mastodon](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/e4c20160a71417df0bebdbe805af235e57633598/b4e01/images/community/mastodon_w.svg)
](https://bitcoinhackers.org/@bisq "Mastodon")
[![youtube](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/fed1cd7fbe28d21cc3731e9a25f1bf4430066722/31f05/images/community/youtube_w.svg)
](https://www.youtube.com/c/bisq-network "YouTube")
[![forum](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/950f07a78294730adb6b69f652635594a81fe09a/0f324/images/community/forum_w.svg)
](https://bisq.community "Bisq Forum")
[![irc](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/e6ad4ea808abfb22795fc3df42c8dac57aa87be1/2f0ba/images/community/irc_w.svg)
](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=bisq "IRC")
[![reddit](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/85765dce3d37d8b2fd698837db1c63e1903c8657/7dc03/images/community/reddit_w.svg)
](https://www.reddit.com/r/bisq "Reddit")
[![matrix](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/73e3d04ed54534a5dc476d5d17c4888f18457c3b/e4604/images/community/matrix_w.svg)
](https://bisq.chat "Matrix")
[![telegram](https://d33wubrfki0l68.cloudfront.net/ab21969e98b2de6dad9f90d5a301d59d7dad4bd0/95a9d/images/community/telegram_w.svg)
](https://t.me/bisq_p2p "Telegram")

