[ NAKAMOTO ](https://nakamoto.com)

  * [Home](https://nakamoto.com/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/nakamoto)
  * [Contribute](https://nakamoto.com/contribute/)
  * [About](https://nakamoto.com/about/)

__

__

# Bitcoin becomes the Flag of Technology

Jan 3, 2020  14 min read  [Balaji S. Srinivasan](/author/balajis/ "Balaji S.
Srinivasan")

[ ![Bitcoin becomes the Flag of
Technology](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw==)
](/bitcoin-becomes-the-flag-of-technology/)

Bitcoin represents the explicit encoding of previously implicit values of the
tech community. It's not just software — it is a Schelling point and a symbol.
As such, it will become widely recognized as the flag of technology over the
course of the 2020s.

To understand this claim, we need to define what "technology" is, what a
"flag" would mean in this context, and why Bitcoin would be chosen as that
flag. Let's proceed in turn.

## Technology: the values behind the valuations

Technology is the culture that Silicon Valley built and exported. It is the
[global community](https://www.cbinsights.com/research/unicorn-startup-market-
map/) of founders, investors, engineers, and designers. And it is the code,
apps, products, and billion dollar companies. But most fundamentally, it's the
values that underpin the valuations.

These values are implicit in common terms like
[MVP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimum_viable_product), [product-market
fit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Product/market_fit), or the [idea
maze](https://cdixon.org/2013/08/04/the-idea-maze). And they are expressed in
writing via popular books by the most accomplished people in tech.‌

![](https://nakamoto.com/content/images/2020/01/image-42.png)

But they usually aren't articulated outright. If we were to enumerate them,
we'd find that technology is internationalist, capitalist, decentralized,
hyperdeflationary, networked, encrypted, digital, volatile, ambitious, and
_quietly_ revolutionary. These are the values of technology.

Bitcoin (and crypto more generally) moves us beyond the implicit by expressing
these values in a piece of code that doubles as an investment vehicle. The
code speaks to the developers, the upside appeals to the investors, and the
values encoded within speak to both. If you believe in these values, you tend
to buy Bitcoin.

## Bitcoin: an ideological flag and a Schelling point

Recall that not every flag represents a geographical entity. Some of them
represent movements, like the Gadsen flag or the rainbow flag. Bitcoin becomes
a flag in this sense, as the encoding of technology's aforementioned values.
An ideological flag, rather than a geographic one.

![](https://nakamoto.com/content/images/2020/01/image-43.png)

Bitcoin also becomes a flag in another sense: a rallying point, a Schelling
point for an entrepreneurial community.

Recall that a [Schelling
point](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Focal_point_\(game_theory\)) occurs when
a community coordinates _without_ explicit coordination. The [classic
example](https://nav.al/schelling-point) is when two strangers know that they
must meet in New York City on a given day, but are not told where or when.
They need to guess what the other person will do without communicating with
them. The equilibrium solution to this is usually "meet at 12 noon in front of
the Grand Central Terminal information booth."

Similarly, if we asked the question of what two random people in the _global_
tech community would coordinate on, we start to find that American, Chinese,
and Russian technologists who otherwise don't agree on much tend to agree that
Bitcoin is valuable.  
  
For example, Jack Dorsey runs Twitter, Reid Hoffman founded LinkedIn, and Marc
Andreessen and Peter Thiel are on the board of Facebook – but all of them are
pro-Bitcoin. Similarly, Binance founder Changpeng Zhao and Telegram founder
Pavel Durov are Chinese-Canadian and Russian expatriates respectively, and are
also pro-Bitcoin. Different countries, different backgrounds, but a shared
belief in digital currency.

![](https://nakamoto.com/content/images/2020/01/image-44.png)

It's hard to get folks like this to all agree on something. If you think about
it, the global tech community is not going to line up behind Google, or
Facebook, or WeChat, or Yandex. Even if a founder respects the products these
companies built, as a capitalist they are always aware that there may be
economic disalignment at some point in the future. What is good for Google may
not always be good for you.

What technologists do tend to align around are (a) open source projects where
alignment is less material and (b) investments where alignment is
quantifiable. Bitcoin is both of these.

With respect to open source, the closest analogy to Bitcoin may be Linux. Like
Linux, all can profit from Bitcoin but none can corrupt it. For example,
Google and Facebook are tough competitors – but they cooperate on Linux
because it's a demilitarized zone where one party cannot deprive the other of
their contributions. Microsoft may have its own OS, but even Microsoft has to
[respect Linux](https://www.theverge.com/2019/5/6/18534687/microsoft-
windows-10-linux-kernel-feature) nowadays.

![](https://nakamoto.com/content/images/2020/01/image-45.png)

Similarly, within the crypto community as well – which is overlapping with but
not identical to the tech community – whatever project someone is starting,
they are aware of Bitcoin, respect it, and likely hold some. Whatever exchange
someone is running, they will have Bitcoin support. Whatever crypto tutorial
someone is writing, they will assume the user knows something about Bitcoin.

Bitcoin is thus many people's first choice and many people's second choice.
This means it will become the community's first choice. That's why Bitcoin is
also a flag in the sense of a Schelling Point – something to rally around.

## Bitcoin encodes the values of Technology

But when the global tech community rallies around the flag of Bitcoin, what
exactly is it getting behind?

As noted above, we argue that Bitcoin encodes the following implicit values of
technology: internationalist, capitalist, decentralized, hyperdeflationary,
networked, encrypted, digital, volatile, ambitious, and _quietly_
revolutionary. Let's go through each of these in turn.

### Internationalist

Bitcoin and technology are both intrinsically internationalist.

The tech industry may have begun in Silicon Valley, but it's a global
phenomenon at this point. Within the US, [more than
60%](https://www.fastcompany.com/4039294/over-60-of-americas-most-highly-
valued-tech-firms-were-founded-by-1st-and-2nd-generation-immigrants) of the
most valuable technology companies were founded by first and second generation
immigrants. And with [51% of
unicorns](https://twitter.com/balajis/status/1180563741122928640) now outside
the US, tech extends far beyond Silicon Valley to every country with an
internet connection.

The same is true for Bitcoin. [Millions of crypto
traders](https://datalight.me/blog/researches/longread/how-are-crypto-traders-
distributed-across-the-globe/) are distributed across the world, there are
[thousands](https://wwww.meetup.com/topics/bitcoin/) of Bitcoin meetups
happening in hundreds of cities, and every major nation state is
[aware](https://www.loc.gov/law/help/cryptocurrency/world-survey.php) of
cryptocurrency.‌

![](https://nakamoto.com/content/images/2020/01/image-46.png)

### Capitalist

Bitcoin and technology are both fundamentally capitalist.

The tech industry proper revolves around entrepreneurs, angel investors,
venture capitalists, M&As, and IPOs. The broader tech community also includes
academic engineers and the open source community, neither of which are for-
profit, but both of which are far more capitalism-friendly than their
counterparts in academic humanities departments and traditional nonprofits.

Bitcoin likewise is about capitalism. It is a ledger of transactions. It is a
speculative investment. It is the digitization of money. It is a transnational
form of property rights. It's delivered venture returns. And it encodes the
history of an entire economy in its blockchain. As such it's intrinsically
capitalist.

### Decentralized

Bitcoin and technology are both highly decentralized.

As Benedict Evans
[noted](https://twitter.com/benedictevans/status/1127280727475679232?lang=en)
recently, the great thing about tech monopolies is how many there are to
choose from! Any [market map](https://www.cbinsights.com/research/market-map/)
of a tech sector will show the same thing: a profusion of dozens or hundreds
of companies in any industry, all vying for different pieces of the market.
There are [hundreds of millions of
websites](https://www.internetlivestats.com/total-number-of-websites/), almost
[five million startups](https://angel.co/companies) on AngelList, thousands of
angel investors, and [hundreds](https://news.crunchbase.com/news/there-are-
more-vc-funds-than-ever-but-capital-concentrates-at-the-top/) of large VC
firms. There is no single chokepoint in tech, no one financier or platform
that you _must_ deploy on to succeed.‌

![](https://nakamoto.com/content/images/2020/01/image-49.png)

The same is true for Bitcoin, and crypto more generally. Satoshi famously
[designed](https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf) Bitcoin such that no single miner
could censor transactions on the network, and
[called](https://satoshi.nakamotoinstitute.org/emails/cryptography/16/) it
"completely decentralized with no server or central authority". While there's
always more to be done in terms of
[quantifying](https://news.earn.com/quantifying-decentralization-e39db233c28e)
and improving decentralization, the ecosystem has miners, nodes, exchanges,
developers, and investors, each of whom have competing interests, and
(ideally) none of whom has a veto over Bitcoin.

![](https://nakamoto.com/content/images/2020/01/image-48.png)Left: Mastering
Bitcoin's diagram of the extended [bitcoin
network](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/mastering-
bitcoin/9781491902639/ch06.html). Right: a random sample of coins.

Finally, there's one more level of decentralization: decentralization across
coins. There are now enough different approaches to consensus and privacy that
it's highly unlikely that cryptocurrency as a phenomenon will ever vanish. The
vulnerabilities for proof-of-work are not the same as those for proof-of-
stake, delegated proof-of-stake, proof-of-space, and so on. It's unlikely that
any single issue can now take out _all_ coins and _all_ exchanges
simultaneously. At least some will survive.‌‌‌‌

Thus in an absolute worst case scenario of a global crackdown on
cryptocurrencies where Bitcoin itself is found to suffer from an unfixable
[vulnerability](https://www.cvedetails.com/vulnerability-
list/vendor_id-12094/Bitcoin.html), we can expect a partial migration to
surviving coins as well as an _import_ of the Bitcoin ledger into one of the
surviving chains. The reason is that Bitcoin ledger is so highly replicated,
and has so many stakeholders behind it, that it is practically impossible to
erase from the earth. It will be snapshotted and restored over and over again
– even if the original network is shut down.

### Hyperdeflationary

Bitcoin and technology are both agents of hyperdeflation.‌

The single most important graph in technology is arguably Moore's law. That's
a story of hyperdeflation: if the number of transistors on an integrated
circuit doubles every two years, the cost of computing roughly halves over the
same period. In other words, the same dollar will buy more compute power
tomorrow than today, even taking inflation into account.‌

![](https://nakamoto.com/content/images/2020/01/image-50.png)

And it's not just compute power. The areas that technology has disrupted have
seen plummeting prices. We can see this visually, if we compare the number of
different pieces of hardware replaced by a single iPhone. We can see this
quantitatively, if we compare the cost of browsing Wikipedia or Spotify to the
equivalent in physical encyclopedias or compact disks.‌ ‌‌And we can see this
visually if we compare the [long-term trajectory of
costs](https://twitter.com/balajis/status/1181830195260657664?lang=en) in the
sectors technology has touched (televisions, software, phones) to those it has
not yet disrupted (education, healthcare).‌

![](https://nakamoto.com/content/images/2020/01/image-54.png)

Bitcoin is also hyperdeflation incarnate. It's not just that BTC was the best
investment of the 2010s, and increased by orders of magnitude in value
relative to the USD over the last ten years – though it's always worth keeping
this miraculous [ten year chart](https://www.blockchain.com/charts/market-
price?timespan=all&scale=1) in mind.

![](https://nakamoto.com/content/images/2020/01/image-52.png)

It's also that Bitcoin represents a form of hyperdeflation complementary to
and different from Moore's law. If Moore's law was about creating value by
reducing the cost of computation, Bitcoin is about capturing value by
shielding it from inflationary pressure. Or as the
[meme](https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/6yn8hs/the_difference_between_inflation_and_deflation/)
goes:‌

![](https://nakamoto.com/content/images/2020/01/image-53.png)

Eventually, if Bitcoin truly achieves its destiny, we'll use BTC as a unit of
account. That's called
[hyperbitcoinization](https://nakamotoinstitute.org/mempool/hyperbitcoinization/).

### Networked

Bitcoin and technology are both network-based.

![](https://nakamoto.com/content/images/2020/01/image-55.png)

To say that technology is based on the internet is obvious. To say that it is
about social networks, loose collaborations, non-geographical associations,
and routing algorithms is also obvious. But the long-term implication of this
is that the [geodesic
distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distance_\(graph_theory\)) between two
points in a social network is becoming [more
important](http://web.archive.org/web/20140626164927/http://www.wired.com/2013/11/software-
is-reorganizing-the-world-and-cloud-formations-could-lead-to-physical-
nations/) than the [great circle
distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great-circle_distance) between two
points on the surface of the earth.

So too with Bitcoin, and cryptocurrency more generally. Perhaps only one in
100 people on the face of the Earth holds Bitcoin today, at most 50 million
people. In the early days of Bitcoin it was far fewer.

But they were effectively all together in the same room thanks to the
internet. It didn't matter how far apart they were geographically; they were
all part of the same idea, linked through a computer network. They could
partially opt out of their country's currency (based on geographical proximity
to their neighbors) and partially opt in to this new world (based on
ideological proximity to people of shared mind).

The freedom to associate with anyone, anywhere in the world based on ideas
shared through a computer network is a core value implicitly shared by both
technology and Bitcoin that is radically different from the premises of the
[Westphalian state](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Westphalian_sovereignty).

### Encrypted

Bitcoin and technology are both founded on encryption.

![](https://nakamoto.com/content/images/2020/01/image-56.png)

The modern technology industry only exists because of encryption on the
internet. [Without SSH](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/brief-history-ssh-
and-remote-access) for encrypted connections there would be no cloud, no
remote work, no deployments. Without SSL and
[HTTPS](https://nakamoto.ghost.io/zcash-the-https-of-blockchains/) for
encrypting credit card and wire information there would be no ecommerce, no
payment companies, no ads, and no subscriptions. The fundamental engineering
and payments infrastructure for creating wealth on the internet would not
exist.

![](https://nakamoto.com/content/images/2020/01/image-57.png)

Similarly, Bitcoin only exists because of decades of work in theoretical and
applied cryptography. Without concepts like public key cryptography, digital
signatures, hashing, and hashcash or implementations like SHA-256, RIPEMD-160,
and secp256k1, Bitcoin would not be feasible. The fundamental cryptographic
constructions required to represent, transmit, and safeguard wealth through
Nakamoto consensus would not be available.

### Digital

Bitcoin and technology are both inherently digital.

This again is almost too obvious to point out, but over the last thirty years
the technology industry has digitized books, magazines, movies, newspapers,
photos, letters, advertisements, music, documents, radio, television, and
every form of media. Tech has also digitized things we didn't even think of as
"digital" in the 1980s, from your Fitbit steps to your preference settings
within an app. And of course digitization unlocked the ability to copy a file,
to share it, to edit it, to aggregate it, to do machine learning on it, and
much more.

Bitcoin and cryptocurrency more generally are the next phase in digitization.
While the technology industry had digitized everything that was not scarce,
until Nakamoto consensus we did not have a native representation of _[digital
scarcity](http://archive.is/O1rUM)_. Workarounds like PayPal used a
centralized database to simulate digital scarcity, but at base they relied
upon a set of permissioned actors with root privileges to guarantee that
scarcity. Bitcoin's blockchain changed all that.

Once people realized that Bitcoin's blockchain was a cryptographically secure
way to represent a public database of who possessed digital currency, they
quickly realized that similar approaches could be used to digitize stocks,
bonds, commodities, derivatives, REITs, mortgages, loans, and every single
kind of financial asset. Moreover, as with the first wave of tech-driven
digitization, we will be able to compose these building blocks of digital
finance to create new applications. And we are also en route to [digitizing
identity](https://identity.foundation/), [property
rights](https://twitter.com/balajis/status/1152786340909473793), and
eventually [governance](https://medium.com/@FEhrsam/blockchain-governance-
programming-our-future-c3bfe30f2d74) itself.

### Volatile

Bitcoin and technology are both highly volatile.

> You only ever experience two emotions in a startup: euphoria and terror. And
> I find that lack of sleep enhances them both.‌‌‌‌  
>  
> – Marc Andreessen

Startups are volatile. Many startups fail. Bankruptcies are common. [Post-
mortems](https://www.cbinsights.com/research/startup-failure-post-mortem/) are
common. Failure is not welcomed, but it is budgeted for, accepted, and
possible. VCs are all about the [power law](https://blog.usejournal.com/power-
laws-in-venture-capital-why-the-long-tail-matters-22e057c6fa34), where a
single investment can succeed and pay for all the others.
[Persistent](https://www.forbes.com/sites/alexkonrad/2018/10/08/the-new-
atlanta-billionaires-behind-an-unlikely-tech-unicorn/#732d836f31a2)
[entrepreneurs](https://techcrunch.com/2011/06/14/pandora-prices-ipo-
at-16-per-share-now-valued-at-2-6-billion/)
[can](https://news.crunchbase.com/news/in-its-first-funding-
in-14-years-1password-raises-200m-series-a-led-by-accel/)
[sometimes](https://techcrunch.com/2017/12/14/squarespace-raises-
about-200-million-at-a-1-7-billion-valuation/)
[win](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Initial_public_offering_of_Facebook)
[big](https://www.geekwire.com/2017/live-amazon-rings-nasdaq-opening-
bell-20-year-anniversary-ipo/). And patient, long-term capital has a chance of
winning [1000X
returns](https://twitter.com/sassal0x/status/1108850991967817729).

The underlying reason for this is that variance
[increases](http://onlinestatbook.com/2/sampling_distributions/samp_dist_mean.html)
with small sample sizes. When you only have ten employees, a single person
quitting can tank the company. Conversely, if you only have ten customers and
you bring in a large sale, that one event could boost the revenues of the
company by 10%, attract a key investment, and lead to the long-term success of
the venture.

![](https://nakamoto.com/content/images/2020/01/image-41.png)

Bitcoin is similarly volatile. The price graph alone shows multiple 80-90%
drops over the past ten years. The number of failed Bitcoin startups is
legion. And the number of new Bitcoin millionaires is as well. Bitcoin is, in
many ways, the world's first publicly traded hypergrowth startup. And it is
exposing millions of people to the vicissitudes of startup culture, the
virtues of persistence and patience, and the downside of quitting too early
and proclaiming [premature death](https://99bitcoins.com/bitcoin-obituaries/).

### Ambitious

Bitcoin and technology are both breathtakingly but rationally ambitious.

The ambition of the tech entrepreneur is often mocked. But without the belief
that one could build a spaceship, create an electric car, organize the world's
information, or connect billions of people, we would simply not have the
companies we have today. The strength of technology is _realistic_ ambition,
_rational_ ambition, ambition based on calculated risks and quantified
upsides.  
  
Bitcoin's ambition was nothing less than the development of a new digital
currency to rival the US dollar. Ten years later, it is clear that every
central bank and financial institution in the world has heard of Bitcoin.
Today, with the [existence](https://stablecoinstats.com/) of multiple at-scale
digital dollars, the very real possibility of China
[potentially](https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/articles/2019-12-29/china-has-
edge-over-silicon-valley-to-end-banking-as-we-know-it) rolling out a
blockchain-based digital currency, and [Bitcoin's #40
ranking](https://fiatmarketcap.com/) on the fiat market cap charts, it's not
crazy to say that Bitcoin has changed the world – and may well give the dollar
a run for its money.

But it _was_ crazy to think that Bitcoin could compete with the dollar in
2009. It was a piece of software
[posted](https://www.metzdowd.com/pipermail/cryptography/2009-January/014994.html)
on a mailing list! Yet in the very first exchange after Satoshi posted the
whitepaper, it was clear that Hal Finney and Satoshi were [wildly yet
rationally
ambitious](https://www.metzdowd.com/pipermail/cryptography/2009-January/015004.html).
Hal calculated a scenario in which each BTC was worth $10M per coin:

> As an amusing thought experiment, imagine that Bitcoin is successful and
> becomes the dominant payment system in use throughout the world. Then the
> total value of the currency should be equal to the total value of all the
> wealth in the world. Current estimates of total worldwide household wealth
> that I have found range from $100 trillion to $300 trillion. With 20 million
> coins, that gives each coin a value of about $10 million.  
>  
> So the possibility of generating coins today with a few cents of compute
> time may be quite a good bet, with a payoff of something like 100 million to
> 1! Even if the odds of Bitcoin succeeding to this degree are slim, are they
> really 100 million to one against? Something to think about...

Given the [_ad arguendo_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arguendo) supposition
that Bitcoin would work at a technical level, he made a [Fermi
estimate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fermi_problem#Examples) of the
valuation based on a set of logical premises. And once Bitcoin's technology
did prove to work, and once enough others understood those premises, BTC got
to $10,000 per coin in the first ten years. Of course, that's not yet $10M and
a replacement for the US dollar – but as they say, [the first billion is the
hardest](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0017SUYWS/ref=dp-kindle-
redirect?_encoding=UTF8&btkr=1).

###  _Quietly_ Revolutionary

Last, but not least, Bitcoin and technology are both _quietly_ revolutionary.

Technology did not disrupt the music industry, the taxi business, or the
newspaper business through traditional political activism. It simply built
better products that millions of people voluntarily chose to purchase or use
of their own accord. And through these many quiet, individual, personal
decisions enormous change was wrought, as these graphs demonstrate:

![](https://nakamoto.com/content/images/2020/01/image-58.png)

Similarly, Bitcoin is not about accomplishing change through folk activism.
It's a network-based phenomenon which has accomplished a revolution in
monetary policy through a billion private actions rather standing on the
street corner spouting slogans. It is quietly revolutionary.

![](https://nakamoto.com/content/images/2020/01/image-60.png)

## What comes next?

We've explained how Bitcoin (and crypto more broadly) encodes the implicit
values of technology. It is internationalist, capitalist, decentralized,
hyperdeflationary, networked, encrypted, digital, volatile, ambitious, and
_quietly_ revolutionary.

I believe that over the 2020s, the technology industry will end up aligning
behind Bitcoin and crypto as part of a broader international realignment.
Cryptocurrency simultaneously reflects many fundamental American values (like
freedom of speech, freedom of contract, freedom of association, protection
against unreasonable search & seizure, the right to privacy, and so on) while
_also_ demonstrating broad international appeal to millions of people around
world.

This realignment would not be traditional right vs left, but rather land vs
cloud, state vs network, centralized vs decentralized, new money vs old money,
internationalist/capitalist vs nationalist/socialist,
[MMT](https://www.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/the-economist-who-believes-the-
government-should-just-print-more-money) vs BTC, and (perhaps most
symbolically) Hamilton vs Satoshi. The new American center may be
decentralized.

‌But that is a story for another time. Until then, I leave you with
[this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JaMJi1_1tkA).

[__](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://nakamoto.com/bitcoin-
becomes-the-flag-of-
technology/)[__](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https://nakamoto.com/bitcoin-
becomes-the-flag-of-
technology/&text=Bitcoin%20becomes%20the%20Flag%20of%20Technology)[__](https://pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https://nakamoto.com/bitcoin-
becomes-the-flag-of-
technology/&media=&description=Bitcoin%20becomes%20the%20Flag%20of%20Technology)[__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://nakamoto.com/bitcoin-
becomes-the-flag-of-
technology/&title=Bitcoin%20becomes%20the%20Flag%20of%20Technology)[__](https://reddit.com/submit?url=https://nakamoto.com/bitcoin-
becomes-the-flag-of-
technology/&title=Bitcoin%20becomes%20the%20Flag%20of%20Technology)[__](https://www.tumblr.com/widgets/share/tool?canonicalUrl=https://nakamoto.com/bitcoin-
becomes-the-flag-of-
technology/&title=Bitcoin%20becomes%20the%20Flag%20of%20Technology)[__](http://vk.com/share.php?url=https://nakamoto.com/bitcoin-
becomes-the-flag-of-
technology/&title=Bitcoin%20becomes%20the%20Flag%20of%20Technology)[__](https://getpocket.com/edit?url=https://nakamoto.com/bitcoin-
becomes-the-flag-of-
technology/)[__](https://t.me/share/url?url=https://nakamoto.com/bitcoin-
becomes-the-flag-of-
technology/&text=Bitcoin%20becomes%20the%20Flag%20of%20Technology)

![Balaji S.
Srinivasan](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw==)

#### Balaji S. Srinivasan

[Twitter](https://twitter.com/@balajis) [More posts](/author/balajis/)

Angel investor. Cofounder of Earn, Counsyl, Teleport, Coin Center. Previously
CTO of Coinbase, GP Andreessen Horowitz. I hear this Bitcoin thing might be
kind of a big deal.

[__Previous Post](/what-are-the-key-properties-of-bitcoin/)

[Next Post __](/crypto-in-the-2020s/)

### You might also like...

[ ![What will happen to cryptocurrency in the
2020s?](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw==)
](/crypto-in-the-2020s/)

##  [What will happen to cryptocurrency in the 2020s?](/crypto-in-the-2020s/)

Jan 5, 2020  7 min read

[ ![Bitcoin's P2P
Network](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw==)
](/bitcoins-p2p-network/)

##  [Bitcoin's P2P Network](/bitcoins-p2p-network/)

Dec 29, 2019  8 min read

[ ![Gnutella: an Intro to
Gossip](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw==)
](/gnutella/)

##  [Gnutella: an Intro to Gossip](/gnutella/)

Dec 29, 2019  11 min read

Please enable JavaScript to view the [comments powered by
Disqus.](https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript)

[ NAKAMOTO ](https://nakamoto.com)

__

