![Close](/img/icons/ico_close.svg?1652976465)

Bitcoin.org is a community funded project, donations are appreciated and used
to improve the website.

Make a donation

Bitcoin.org needs your support!

×

Donate to Bitcoin.org

Use this QR code or address below

[ 3E8ociqZa9mZUSwGdSmAEMAoAxBK3FNDcd
](bitcoin:3E8ociqZa9mZUSwGdSmAEMAoAxBK3FNDcd)

$5.00

(... BTC)

$25.00

(... BTC)

$50.00

(... BTC)

[![Bitcoin](/img/bitcoin-core/bitcoin-core.svg?1652976465)](/en/bitcoin-core/)

  * Features
    * [Overview](/en/bitcoin-core/features/)
    * [Validation](/en/bitcoin-core/features/validation)
    * [Privacy](/en/bitcoin-core/features/privacy)
    * [Requirements](/en/bitcoin-core/features/requirements)
    * [User Interface](/en/bitcoin-core/features/user-interface)
    * [Network Support](/en/bitcoin-core/features/network-support)
  * [Get Help](/en/bitcoin-core/help)
  * Contribute
    * [Bug reports](/en/bitcoin-core/contribute/issues)
    * [Code](/en/development)
    * [Documentation](/en/bitcoin-core/contribute/documentation)
    * [Translations](/en/bitcoin-core/contribute/translations)
    * [Tech Support](/en/bitcoin-core/contribute/support)
  * [News](/en/version-history)
  * [Download](/en/download)

  * English
    *       * [Bahasa Indonesia](/id/)
      * [Català](/ca/)
      * [Dansk](/da/)
      * [Deutsch](/de/)
      * [English](/en/)
      * [Español](/es/)
      * [Français](/fr/)
      * [Italiano](/it/)
      * [Magyar](/hu/)
      * [Nederlands](/nl/)
      * [Polski](/pl/)
      * [Português Brasil](/pt_BR/)
      * [Română](/ro/)
      * [Slovenščina](/sl/)
      * [Srpski](/sr/)
    *       * [Svenska](/sv/)
      * [Türkçe](/tr/)
      * [Ελληνικά](/el/)
      * [български](/bg/)
      * [Русский](/ru/)
      * [Українська](/uk/)
      * [العربية](/ar/)
      * [فارسی](/fa/)
      * [עברית](/he/)
      * [हिन्दी](/hi/)
      * [한국어](/ko/)
      * [日本語](/ja/)
      * [简体中文](/zh_CN/)
      * [繁體中文](/zh_TW/)

Bahasa Indonesia Català Dansk Deutsch English Español Français Italiano Magyar
Nederlands Polski Português Brasil Română Slovenščina Srpski Svenska Türkçe
Ελληνικά български Русский Українська العربية فارسی עברית हिन्दी 한국어 日本語 简体中文
繁體中文 Language: en

[Bitcoin](/en/) > [Core](/en/bitcoin-core/) > [News](/en/version-history) >
0.9.3

# Bitcoin Core version 0.9.3 released

27 September 2014

ALL TOPICS

  * Upgrading and downgrading
    * How to Upgrade
    * Downgrading warnings
  * 0.9.3 Release notes
    * Credits

Bitcoin Core version 0.9.3 is _not available for security reasons_ :

~~https://bitcoin.org/bin/0.9.3/~~

This is a new minor version release, bringing only bug fixes and updated
translations. Upgrading to this release is recommended.

Please report bugs using the issue tracker at github:

<https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues>

# Upgrading and downgrading

## How to Upgrade

If you are running an older version, shut it down. Wait until it has
completely shut down (which might take a few minutes for older versions), then
run the installer (on Windows) or just copy over /Applications/Bitcoin-Qt (on
Mac) or bitcoind/bitcoin-qt (on Linux).

If you are upgrading from version 0.7.2 or earlier, the first time you run
0.9.3 your blockchain files will be re-indexed, which will take anywhere from
30 minutes to several hours, depending on the speed of your machine.

## Downgrading warnings

The ‘chainstate’ for this release is not always compatible with previous
releases, so if you run 0.9.x and then decide to switch back to a 0.8.x
release you might get a blockchain validation error when starting the old
release (due to ‘pruned outputs’ being omitted from the index of unspent
transaction outputs).

Running the old release with the -reindex option will rebuild the chainstate
data structures and correct the problem.

Also, the first time you run a 0.8.x release on a 0.9 wallet it will rescan
the blockchain for missing spent coins, which will take a long time (tens of
minutes on a typical machine).

# 0.9.3 Release notes

RPC:

  * Avoid a segfault on getblock if it can’t read a block from disk
  * Add paranoid return value checks in base58

Protocol and network code:

  * Don’t poll showmyip.com, it doesn’t exist anymore
  * Add a way to limit deserialized string lengths and use it
  * Add a new checkpoint at block 295,000
  * Increase IsStandard() scriptSig length
  * Avoid querying DNS seeds, if we have open connections
  * Remove a useless millisleep in socket handler
  * Stricter memory limits on CNode
  * Better orphan transaction handling
  * Add `-maxorphantx=<n>` and `-maxorphanblocks=<n>` options for control over the maximum orphan transactions and blocks

Wallet:

  * Check redeemScript size does not exceed 520 byte limit
  * Ignore (and warn about) too-long redeemScripts while loading wallet

GUI:

  * fix ‘opens in testnet mode when presented with a BIP-72 link with no fallback’
  * AvailableCoins: acquire cs_main mutex
  * Fix unicode character display on MacOSX

Miscellaneous:

  * key.cpp: fail with a friendlier message on missing ssl EC support
  * Remove bignum dependency for scripts
  * Upgrade OpenSSL to 1.0.1i (see <https://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20140806.txt> \- just to be sure, no critical issues for Bitcoin Core)
  * Upgrade miniupnpc to 1.9.20140701
  * Fix boost detection in build system on some platforms

## Credits

Thanks to everyone who contributed to this release:

  * Andrew Poelstra
  * Cory Fields
  * Gavin Andresen
  * Jeff Garzik
  * Johnathan Corgan
  * Julian Haight
  * Michael Ford
  * Pavel Vasin
  * Peter Todd
  * phantomcircuit
  * Pieter Wuille
  * Rose Toomey
  * Ruben Dario Ponticelli
  * shshshsh
  * Trevin Hofmann
  * Warren Togami
  * Wladimir J. van der Laan
  * Zak Wilcox

As well as everyone that helped translating on
[Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/bitcoin/).

[Go back to the version history](/en/version-history)

[ ![Bitcoin](/img/icons/logo-footer.svg?1652976465) ](/en/)

Support Bitcoin.org: Donate

[3E8ociqZa9mZUSwGdSmAEMAoAxBK3FNDcd](bitcoin:3E8ociqZa9mZUSwGdSmAEMAoAxBK3FNDcd)

Introduction:

  * [Individuals](/en/bitcoin-for-individuals)
  * [Businesses](/en/bitcoin-for-businesses)
  * [Developers](https://developer.bitcoin.org/)
  * [Getting started](/en/getting-started)
  * [How it works](/en/how-it-works)
  * [You need to know](/en/you-need-to-know)
  * [White paper](/en/bitcoin-paper)

Resources:

  * [Resources](/en/resources)
  * [Exchanges](/en/exchanges)
  * [Community](/en/community)
  * [Vocabulary ](/en/vocabulary)
  * [Events](/en/events)
  * [Bitcoin Core](/en/bitcoin-core/)

Participate:

  * [Support Bitcoin](/en/support-bitcoin)
  * [Buy Bitcoin](/en/buy)
  * [Running a full node](/en/full-node)
  * [Development](/en/development)

Other:

[Avoid Scams](/en/scams) [Legal](/en/legal) [Privacy Policy](/en/privacy)
[Press](/en/press) [About bitcoin.org](/en/about-us) [Blog](/en/blog)

© Bitcoin Project 2009-2022 Released under the [MIT
license](http://opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)  
Bitcoin Core pages on Bitcoin.org are [maintained separately](/en/bitcoin-
core/about-site) from the rest of the site.

[Network Status](/en/alerts)

  * English
    *       * [Bahasa Indonesia](/id/)
      * [Català](/ca/)
      * [Dansk](/da/)
      * [Deutsch](/de/)
      * [English](/en/)
      * [Español](/es/)
      * [Français](/fr/)
      * [Italiano](/it/)
      * [Magyar](/hu/)
      * [Nederlands](/nl/)
      * [Polski](/pl/)
      * [Português Brasil](/pt_BR/)
      * [Română](/ro/)
      * [Slovenščina](/sl/)
      * [Srpski](/sr/)
    *       * [Svenska](/sv/)
      * [Türkçe](/tr/)
      * [Ελληνικά](/el/)
      * [български](/bg/)
      * [Русский](/ru/)
      * [Українська](/uk/)
      * [العربية](/ar/)
      * [فارسی](/fa/)
      * [עברית](/he/)
      * [हिन्दी](/hi/)
      * [한국어](/ko/)
      * [日本語](/ja/)
      * [简体中文](/zh_CN/)
      * [繁體中文](/zh_TW/)

Bahasa Indonesia Català Dansk Deutsch English Español Français Italiano Magyar
Nederlands Polski Português Brasil Română Slovenščina Srpski Svenska Türkçe
Ελληνικά български Русский Українська العربية فارسی עברית हिन्दी 한국어 日本語 简体中文
繁體中文 en

