![Close](/img/icons/ico_close.svg?1652976465)

Bitcoin.org is a community funded project, donations are appreciated and used
to improve the website.

Make a donation

Bitcoin.org needs your support!

×

Donate to Bitcoin.org

Use this QR code or address below

[ 3E8ociqZa9mZUSwGdSmAEMAoAxBK3FNDcd
](bitcoin:3E8ociqZa9mZUSwGdSmAEMAoAxBK3FNDcd)

$5.00

(... BTC)

$25.00

(... BTC)

$50.00

(... BTC)

[![Bitcoin](/img/bitcoin-core/bitcoin-core.svg?1652976465)](/en/bitcoin-core/)

  * Features
    * [Overview](/en/bitcoin-core/features/)
    * [Validation](/en/bitcoin-core/features/validation)
    * [Privacy](/en/bitcoin-core/features/privacy)
    * [Requirements](/en/bitcoin-core/features/requirements)
    * [User Interface](/en/bitcoin-core/features/user-interface)
    * [Network Support](/en/bitcoin-core/features/network-support)
  * [Get Help](/en/bitcoin-core/help)
  * Contribute
    * [Bug reports](/en/bitcoin-core/contribute/issues)
    * [Code](/en/development)
    * [Documentation](/en/bitcoin-core/contribute/documentation)
    * [Translations](/en/bitcoin-core/contribute/translations)
    * [Tech Support](/en/bitcoin-core/contribute/support)
  * [News](/en/version-history)
  * [Download](/en/download)

  * English
    *       * [Bahasa Indonesia](/id/)
      * [Català](/ca/)
      * [Dansk](/da/)
      * [Deutsch](/de/)
      * [English](/en/)
      * [Español](/es/)
      * [Français](/fr/)
      * [Italiano](/it/)
      * [Magyar](/hu/)
      * [Nederlands](/nl/)
      * [Polski](/pl/)
      * [Português Brasil](/pt_BR/)
      * [Română](/ro/)
      * [Slovenščina](/sl/)
      * [Srpski](/sr/)
    *       * [Svenska](/sv/)
      * [Türkçe](/tr/)
      * [Ελληνικά](/el/)
      * [български](/bg/)
      * [Русский](/ru/)
      * [Українська](/uk/)
      * [العربية](/ar/)
      * [فارسی](/fa/)
      * [עברית](/he/)
      * [हिन्दी](/hi/)
      * [한국어](/ko/)
      * [日本語](/ja/)
      * [简体中文](/zh_CN/)
      * [繁體中文](/zh_TW/)

Bahasa Indonesia Català Dansk Deutsch English Español Français Italiano Magyar
Nederlands Polski Português Brasil Română Slovenščina Srpski Svenska Türkçe
Ελληνικά български Русский Українська العربية فارسی עברית हिन्दी 한국어 日本語 简体中文
繁體中文 Language: en

[Bitcoin](/en/) > [Core](/en/bitcoin-core/) > [News](/en/version-history) >
0.6.3

# Bitcoin-Qt version 0.6.3 released

25 June 2012

Bitcoin-Qt version 0.6.3 is now available for download at:
<http://sourceforge.net/projects/bitcoin/files/Bitcoin/bitcoin-0.6.3/>

This is a bug-fix release, with no new features.

# CHANGE SUMMARY

Fixed a serious denial-of-service attack that could cause the bitcoin process
to become unresponsive. Thanks to Sergio Lerner for finding and responsibly
reporting the problem. (CVE-2012-3789)

Optimized the process of checking transaction signatures, to speed up
processing of new block messages and make propagating blocks across the
network faster.

Fixed an obscure bug that could cause the bitcoin process to get stuck on an
invalid block-chain, if the invalid chain was hundreds of blocks long.

Bitcoin-Qt no longer automatically selects the first address in the address
book (Issue #1384).

Fixed minimize-to-dock behavior of Bitcon-Qt on the Mac.

Added a block checkpoint at block 185,333 to speed up initial blockchain
download.

# Thanks to everybody who contributed to this release:

  * Chris Moore
  * Christian von Roques
  * Fordy
  * Gavin Andresen
  * Jeff Garzik
  * Luke Dashjr
  * Matt Corallo
  * Michael Hendricks
  * Peter Todd
  * Philip Kaufmann
  * Pieter Wuille
  * R E Broadley
  * Sergio Lerner
  * Wladimir J. van der Laan

[Go back to the version history](/en/version-history)

[ ![Bitcoin](/img/icons/logo-footer.svg?1652976465) ](/en/)

Support Bitcoin.org: Donate

[3E8ociqZa9mZUSwGdSmAEMAoAxBK3FNDcd](bitcoin:3E8ociqZa9mZUSwGdSmAEMAoAxBK3FNDcd)

Introduction:

  * [Individuals](/en/bitcoin-for-individuals)
  * [Businesses](/en/bitcoin-for-businesses)
  * [Developers](https://developer.bitcoin.org/)
  * [Getting started](/en/getting-started)
  * [How it works](/en/how-it-works)
  * [You need to know](/en/you-need-to-know)
  * [White paper](/en/bitcoin-paper)

Resources:

  * [Resources](/en/resources)
  * [Exchanges](/en/exchanges)
  * [Community](/en/community)
  * [Vocabulary ](/en/vocabulary)
  * [Events](/en/events)
  * [Bitcoin Core](/en/bitcoin-core/)

Participate:

  * [Support Bitcoin](/en/support-bitcoin)
  * [Buy Bitcoin](/en/buy)
  * [Running a full node](/en/full-node)
  * [Development](/en/development)

Other:

[Avoid Scams](/en/scams) [Legal](/en/legal) [Privacy Policy](/en/privacy)
[Press](/en/press) [About bitcoin.org](/en/about-us) [Blog](/en/blog)

© Bitcoin Project 2009-2022 Released under the [MIT
license](http://opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)  
Bitcoin Core pages on Bitcoin.org are [maintained separately](/en/bitcoin-
core/about-site) from the rest of the site.

[Network Status](/en/alerts)

  * English
    *       * [Bahasa Indonesia](/id/)
      * [Català](/ca/)
      * [Dansk](/da/)
      * [Deutsch](/de/)
      * [English](/en/)
      * [Español](/es/)
      * [Français](/fr/)
      * [Italiano](/it/)
      * [Magyar](/hu/)
      * [Nederlands](/nl/)
      * [Polski](/pl/)
      * [Português Brasil](/pt_BR/)
      * [Română](/ro/)
      * [Slovenščina](/sl/)
      * [Srpski](/sr/)
    *       * [Svenska](/sv/)
      * [Türkçe](/tr/)
      * [Ελληνικά](/el/)
      * [български](/bg/)
      * [Русский](/ru/)
      * [Українська](/uk/)
      * [العربية](/ar/)
      * [فارسی](/fa/)
      * [עברית](/he/)
      * [हिन्दी](/hi/)
      * [한국어](/ko/)
      * [日本語](/ja/)
      * [简体中文](/zh_CN/)
      * [繁體中文](/zh_TW/)

Bahasa Indonesia Català Dansk Deutsch English Español Français Italiano Magyar
Nederlands Polski Português Brasil Română Slovenščina Srpski Svenska Türkçe
Ελληνικά български Русский Українська العربية فارسی עברית हिन्दी 한국어 日本語 简体中文
繁體中文 en

