###### [![Samourai
Wallet](https://64.media.tumblr.com/avatar_36fa1c18c89f_64.pnj) Samourai
Wallet](/)

* * *

* * *

* * *

x

  * [Archive](/archive)
  * [RSS](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/rss)
  * [Simplify](http://simplifytheme.tumblr.com) version 1.22. Theme Designed & Developed by [](http://amitjakhu.com)Amit Jakhu. Powered by [Tumblr](http://tumblr.com).

[Jan 02  
2018](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/169222582782/bitpay-qr-codes-are-
no-longer-valid-important)

### [Bitpay QR codes are no longer valid. Important
Notice.](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/169222582782/bitpay-qr-codes-
are-no-longer-valid-important)

Very recently and without much notice or discussion with developers, one of
the largest Bitcoin payment processor for merchants, Bitpay, decided to drop
support entirely for the bitcoin standard scheme for displaying a payment
request to an end-user known as
[BIP21](https://href.li/?https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0021.mediawiki).
In replacement of BIP21 - which is universally supported and implemented by
all Bitcoin wallet and service providers since 2012 - Bitpay will present a
payment request to users that conforms to a controversial proposal that is not
widely supported (BIP 70). **  
**

## What is BIP21?

BIP21 is an open standard deployed and enabled by all bitcoin wallets and
services since 2012. Following the rules laid out in BIP21 ensures that no
matter the wallet software or service used, the QR code and payment request
must be created and interpreted in one standard way. This ensures maximum
compatibility and interoperability between software and services all operating
in a decentralized open source network. Needless to say, Bitpays decision to
drop all support for this fundamental open standard, will harm the overall
user experience not improve it, as they claim to be striving for.

## What is Bitpay's Payment Protocol?

Bitpay has replaced BIP21 entirely with different, more controversial
proposals, BIP's 70,71,72. BIP70 was originally proposed by Gavin Andresen and
Mike Hearn in 2013 - who championed[ creating bitcoin
blacklists](https://href.li/?https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/1qmbtu/mike_hearn_chair_of_the_bitcoin_foundations_law/)
\- generated a lot of controversy and remains largely unadopted by the
majority of wallet and service providers due to many security and privacy
concerns.

[BIP70
](https://href.li/?https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0070.mediawiki)introduces
the requirement on developers to support legacy public-key infrastructure
dependencies with known track records of vulnerabilities (openssl and
heartbleed, etcâ€¦). Additionally, widespread implementation of BIP70 introduces
an exposure to increased risk of AML/KYC surveillance and monitoring of on-
chain transactions and more effective blacklists.

## Moving forward

We have to be very clear here. Samourai Wallet will not support BIP70 in our
products, therefore, our wallet users will NOT be able to send bitcoin to QR
codes generated by Bitpay invoices, as they do not provide a valid Bitcoin
address. If you want to make payments to a QR code provided by Bitpay you will
need to use a wallet that has enabled BIP70.

We absolutely do not support Bitpay in agressively using their dominant
position of market share to **bully wallet providers** into supporting their
business plans or **bully users** into a system that degrades their privacy
and the fungibility of bitcoin as a whole. Bitpay should focus on repairing
their image and brand after the cataclysmic failure of the Segwit2x Fork they
helped architect, instead of reinforcing their image as an out of touch bully
looking to hijack the network for their own gain.

Users should stand up to this kind of arrogance and stand up for their
privacy. Samourai has already started the process of contacting all vendors we
rely on who utilize BitPay as a payment processor and informing them of our
intention to switch vendors, as using Bitpay is no longer tolerable or
feasible. We hope others join us.

We are available as always to answer any questions on support.samourai.io or
by email at support@samouraiwallet.com

  * [January 02, 2018](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/169222582782/bitpay-qr-codes-are-no-longer-valid-important)

  1. [![](https://assets.tumblr.com/images/default_avatar/cone_open_16.png)](https://trulife1234.tumblr.com/ "Sharing Love ")[trulife1234](https://trulife1234.tumblr.com/ "Sharing Love") liked this 

  2. [![](https://64.media.tumblr.com/avatar_6c28a07ca3d2_16.pnj)](https://networker.tumblr.com/ "Tony's Rants ")[networker](https://networker.tumblr.com/ "Tony's Rants") liked this 

  3. [![](https://64.media.tumblr.com/avatar_7c8acd856cf5_16.pnj)](https://kryptokidz-blog.tumblr.com/ "KryptoKidz ")[kryptokidz-blog](https://kryptokidz-blog.tumblr.com/ "KryptoKidz") liked this 

  4. [![](https://64.media.tumblr.com/avatar_36fa1c18c89f_16.pnj)](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/ "Samourai Wallet")[samouraiwallet](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/ "Samourai Wallet") posted this 

[Older Post](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/168785913782) [Newer
Post](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/170574017907)
![](https://px.srvcs.tumblr.com/impixu?T=1653239660&J=eyJ0eXBlIjoidXJsIiwidXJsIjoiaHR0cDovL2Jsb2cuc2Ftb3VyYWl3YWxsZXQuY29tL3Bvc3QvMTY5MjIyNTgyNzgyL2JpdHBheS1xci1jb2Rlcy1hcmUtbm8tbG9uZ2VyLXZhbGlkLWltcG9ydGFudCIsInJlcXR5cGUiOjAsInJvdXRlIjoiL3Bvc3QvOmlkLzpzdW1tYXJ5Iiwibm9zY3JpcHQiOjF9&U=DILOLOINKN&K=213abd8e707623fa08ba774130c14e4bebe418ab4a7f7dff90a5c910a814c2e3&R=)![](https://px.srvcs.tumblr.com/impixu?T=1653239660&J=eyJ0eXBlIjoicG9zdCIsInVybCI6Imh0dHA6Ly9ibG9nLnNhbW91cmFpd2FsbGV0LmNvbS9wb3N0LzE2OTIyMjU4Mjc4Mi9iaXRwYXktcXItY29kZXMtYXJlLW5vLWxvbmdlci12YWxpZC1pbXBvcnRhbnQiLCJyZXF0eXBlIjowLCJyb3V0ZSI6Ii9wb3N0LzppZC86c3VtbWFyeSIsInBvc3RzIjpbeyJwb3N0aWQiOiIxNjkyMjI1ODI3ODIiLCJibG9naWQiOjIzNTE1Mjc3Mywic291cmNlIjozM31dLCJub3NjcmlwdCI6MX0=&U=GCFAPHNEBD&K=95230f37a8f192bc62f9e6d350ff42fd2df42bc748aaad0e60a9fc661fd3b868&R=)

