[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/99cc3403ef97&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Bitwise Asset
Management](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*d0LAMHWy1EpE6il-9nS6oA.png)](https://medium.com/bitwise-
asset-management?source=post_page-----
99cc3403ef97--------------------------------)

Published in

[Bitwise Asset Management

](https://medium.com/bitwise-asset-management?source=post_page-----
99cc3403ef97--------------------------------)

[![Bitwise](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*qM6bSBp1qCs_nSsngDkq2Q.png)](/@bitwise.invest?source=post_page
-----99cc3403ef97--------------------------------)

[Bitwise](/@bitwise.invest?source=post_page-----
99cc3403ef97--------------------------------)

Follow

Jul 24, 2018

·

4 min read

# Bitwise Files For First Cryptocurrency Index ETF

 _Looks forward to discussing its alternative approach with regulators_

SAN FRANCISCO, July 24, 2018 — [Bitwise Asset
Management](https://www.bitwiseinvestments.com/), creator of the world’s first
privately-offered cryptocurrency index fund, the Bitwise HOLD 10 Private Index
Fund, today announced the filing of the registration statement for a new fund,
the first publicly-offered cryptocurrency index exchange-traded fund (ETF).

The new ETF will be called the Bitwise HOLD 10 Cryptocurrency Index Fund. It
aims to track the returns of [Bitwise’s HOLD 10
Index](https://www.bitwiseinvestments.com/index), a market-cap-weighted index
of the 10 largest cryptocurrencies, rebalanced monthly. The HOLD 10 Index
captures approximately 80% of the total market capitalization of the
cryptocurrency market. It uses a 5-year-diluted market cap and other
eligibility criteria meant to address challenges of the crypto space such as
continuously changing supply, liquidity, trade volume concentration, and
custody limitations.

A registration statement relating to the shares of the Bitwise HOLD 10
Cryptocurrency Index Fund ETF has been filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) but has not yet been declared effective. The shares of the
ETF may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted prior to the time the
registration statement becomes effective. This press release is not an offer
to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy shares of the fund, nor will
there be any sale of the shares in any state or jurisdiction in which such
offer, solicitation, or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or
qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction. An
offering of the shares of the Bitwise HOLD 10 Cryptocurrency Index Fund ETF
will be made only by means of a prospectus.

 **About Bitwise Asset Management and the HOLD 10 Index**

Founded in 2017, Bitwise Asset Management is a cryptocurrency asset manager.
Bitwise launched the first cryptocurrency index fund, the Bitwise HOLD 10
Private Index Fund, on November 22, 2017. The fund is an open-ended private
placement vehicle that is open to accredited investors and offers weekly
liquidity. It tracks the same index as the proposed publicly-offered ETF.

Bitwise representatives provided the following information regarding the
application of their HOLD 10 Index methodology to a publicly-offered index-
based ETF:

“We are aware that other investment firms have filed for cryptocurrency ETFs
under the Securities Act of 1933, and that there continues to be interest in
filing under the Investment Company Act of 1940. As best we know, all of these
funds plan to offer exposure to a single coin such as bitcoin or ether. That
is fine, but our proposed offering is obviously different,” said Bitwise
Global Head of Exchange-Traded Products John Hyland. “We know that the current
crypto ETF filings have generated a great deal of discussion and analysis
within the SEC about this emerging asset class, and the SEC and its staff, to
their credit, have asked for public comment on a wide range of issues relating
to these products. We expect the staff of the SEC has had ongoing discussions
with the investment firms making the crypto filings to date, and we look
forward to having our own discussions with the SEC about the nature of our
proposed offering.”

Bitwise’s Global Head of Research Matt Hougan further added: “Our research
shows that an index-tracking basket of multiple cryptocurrencies behaves
differently than a single coin. As such, we think both sorts of exposure need
to be looked at by investors when considering the growing cryptocurrency
space. Our view is that this new area has many similarities to the
introduction 10 to 15 years ago of commodity ETFs. At that time, we saw the
launch of single-commodity ETFs tracking gold, silver, crude oil, and other
commodities, as well as ETFs tracking diversified commodity index baskets. We
see a lot of similarities here.”

Bitwise is backed by leading institutional and individual investors, including
Khosla Ventures, General Catalyst, Blockchain Capital, Naval Ravikant, Alison
Davis, David Sacks, Elad Gil, Adam Nash, Adam Ludwin, Suna Said, and Avichal
Garg. The firm is a partner to individuals, financial advisors, family
offices, investment managers, and institutions in navigating cryptocurrency.
The team behind Bitwise, which includes several veterans of the ETF industry,
has expertise in technology, security, indexing, and asset management , and is
headquartered in San Francisco.

 **Bitwise Index Services, LLC** is a subsidiary of Bitwise Asset Management.
Bitwise Index Services develops cryptocurrency indexes and conducts research
in the area of cryptocurrency investing.

 **Bitwise Investment Advisors, LLC** , a subsidiary of Bitwise Asset
Management, sponsors U.S. and non-U.S. private funds that invest in
cryptocurrencies.

 **For More Information**

[www.bitwiseinvestments.com](http://www.bitwiseinvestments.com/)

 **Media**

Hewes Communications, Inc.

Tucker Hewes, 212.207.9451

[tucker@hewescomm.com](mailto:tucker@hewescomm.com)

 **Additional Disclosures**

This release (this “Release”) is being furnished for informational purposes
only.

Performance of an index such as the HOLD 10 Index is not illustrative of any
particular investment. It is not possible to invest directly in an index.
Exposure to an asset class represented by an index may be available through
investable instruments based on that index. There can be no assurance that
investment in cryptocurrencies based on the index will accurately track index
performance or provide positive investment returns.

The Bitwise HOLD 10 Private Index Fund, Ltd. may be offered to certain United
States-accredited investors as defined in Rule 501 of Regulation D promulgated
under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and certain non-United States persons
pursuant to Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933. This is
neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation for an offer to buy Shares in the
Fund. Any offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy Shares will be made
solely through definitive offering documents, identified as such, in respect
of the Fund in compliance with the terms of applicable securities and other
laws. Such definitive offering documents, if any, will describe risks related
to an investment in the Fund (including loss of the entire investment) and
will qualify in their entirety the information set forth in this Release.

SOURCE: Bitwise Asset Management

## Related Links

[https://www.bitwiseinvestments.com](https://www.bitwiseinvestments.com/)

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Bitwise Asset Management](/bitwise-asset-
management?source=post_page-----99cc3403ef97--------------------------------)

Notes from Bitwise.

[Read more from Bitwise Asset Management](/bitwise-asset-
management?source=post_page-----99cc3403ef97--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![rootkitfinance](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Ij8C0TlywcpkelQcCJ0omA.jpeg)](/@rootkitfinance?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[rootkitfinance

](/@rootkitfinance?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## upNFT Series 2: Binance Chain

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*3KNY4o47kMRDp9Z1aVIMlA.jpeg)](/@rootkitfinance/upnft-
series-2-binance-chain-331d6a05fe8f?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![CityNews](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*BwbedWpkpjOZOefyFkL2vg.png)](/@citynewsr?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[CityNews

](/@citynewsr?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## TikTok User Surprises Grandma in Emotional Video | What’s Trending in
Seconds | #shorts

](/@citynewsr/tiktok-user-surprises-grandma-in-emotional-video-whats-trending-
in-seconds-shorts-2172b403d802?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Kinesis
Labs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*UQRKpsqR_b0PpzP8bqmmPw.png)](/@kinesislabs?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Kinesis Labs

](/@kinesislabs?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Kinesis Labs has Launched!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*CDx1szlve7aZRWlt)](/@kinesislabs/kinesis-
labs-has-launched-a3f2f1ba3ced?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![GOAT
Traders](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*bxSSZG6P2liBZSBPIg0ZXA.jpeg)](/@goat-
traders?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

[GOAT Traders

](/@goat-traders?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

in

[The GOAT Report

](https://medium.com/the-g-o-a-t-report?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## The GOAT Report — RSR

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*MJXUfWL8HKnsvPgl.jpg)](/the-
g-o-a-t-report/the-goat-report-rsr-9510269b454?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[[![BabySwap](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*4Bks1ppOR57hvXJPIUGIaw.png)](/@babyswap?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[BabySwap

](/@babyswap?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

## BKEX: New BabySwap Friend Coming in!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*G9oNkt7UElA9-iPL6eZq1Q.png)](/@babyswap/bkex-
new-babyswap-friend-coming-in-e045a9a6e534?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Candid
ICO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*coiHA4cJD5tTOWnc17Eacg.jpeg)](/@CandidICO?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Candid ICO

](/@CandidICO?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Candid ICO review of COTI — DIGITAL CURRENCY PAYMENT PLATFORM

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*NJmC0uswm3aqDjvXcjiIEA.jpeg)](/@CandidICO/candid-
ico-review-of-coti-digital-currency-payment-
platform-b114eb4eba41?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Auxilium
Global](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*z1haecyWbQq46K75bm1vcw.png)](/@auxiliumglobal?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Auxilium Global

](/@auxiliumglobal?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Auxilium: the end of an era

](/@auxiliumglobal/auxilium-the-end-of-an-era-
ddde755d2528?source=post_internal_links---------6----------------------------)

[[![Altcoin.io
Exchange](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*_tLbKUL_sTiolr60zLpLYg.png)](/@altcoin.io?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Altcoin.io Exchange

](/@altcoin.io?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

in

[Altcoin.io Exchange

](https://medium.com/altcoin-exchange?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## October update: new talent, tech, and atomic swaps

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*VXJKD9TQYhKBjfBIkeEUtg.jpeg)](/altcoin-
exchange/october-update-new-talent-tech-and-atomic-
swaps-c9a213102a7c?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----99cc3403ef97--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
99cc3403ef97--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
99cc3403ef97--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
99cc3403ef97--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
99cc3403ef97--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----99cc3403ef97--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----99cc3403ef97--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fbitwise-
asset-management%2Fbitwise-files-for-first-cryptocurrency-index-
etf-99cc3403ef97&source=post_page--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Bitwise](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*qM6bSBp1qCs_nSsngDkq2Q.png)](/@bitwise.invest)

[

## Bitwise

](/@bitwise.invest)

194 Followers

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fusers%2F5b2cd72c5d1b%2Flazily-enable-
writer-
subscription&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fbitwise-
asset-management%2Fbitwise-files-for-first-cryptocurrency-index-
etf-99cc3403ef97&user=Bitwise&userId=5b2cd72c5d1b&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Mitchell
Wang](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*-QSgBZtdKdPNd4woYqTehA.jpeg)](/@deFTmitchell?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------ef429f19_8363_46ca_aa6a_7c66a9b8817e-------)

[Mitchell Wang

](/@deFTmitchell?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
ef429f19_8363_46ca_aa6a_7c66a9b8817e-------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------ef429f19_8363_46ca_aa6a_7c66a9b8817e-------)

## Strategy Analysis: 50/50 Long Bitcoin, Short Doge

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Lddj5EnXI80H-bo9laEqhQ.png)](/coinmonks/strategy-
analysis-50-50-long-bitcoin-short-doge-617626cd7268?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------ef429f19_8363_46ca_aa6a_7c66a9b8817e-------)

[[![RavenKeiara](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Te66ObvO5an8kiLjvHRo7w.jpeg)](/@ravenkeiara?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------ef429f19_8363_46ca_aa6a_7c66a9b8817e-------)

[RavenKeiara

](/@ravenkeiara?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
ef429f19_8363_46ca_aa6a_7c66a9b8817e-------)

## Recap Crypto: In the studio with Najah Roberts

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*slF5VsSqgJ0ieaJ59fWueA.png)](/@ravenkeiara/recap-
crypto-in-the-studio-with-najah-roberts-6a0acf1900c7?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------ef429f19_8363_46ca_aa6a_7c66a9b8817e-------)

[[![Gabe
Sullivan](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*o6pL_tDq3UUCUhDiZCcT7Q.jpeg)](/@sullyfolks?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------ef429f19_8363_46ca_aa6a_7c66a9b8817e-------)

[Gabe Sullivan

](/@sullyfolks?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
ef429f19_8363_46ca_aa6a_7c66a9b8817e-------)

in

[The Uncomanor

](https://medium.com/the-uncomanor?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------ef429f19_8363_46ca_aa6a_7c66a9b8817e-------)

## Why crypto predictions from advocates almost always underperform

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*RSDmq1r1yExF9Rki)](/the-
uncomanor/why-crypto-predictions-from-advocates-almost-always-
underperform-6dea7ee22e18?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------ef429f19_8363_46ca_aa6a_7c66a9b8817e-------)

[[![Erich
Richards](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*wnl7xb4LUcjYwnoe48X1MQ.jpeg)](/@cleangreengrowth?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------ef429f19_8363_46ca_aa6a_7c66a9b8817e-------)

[Erich Richards

](/@cleangreengrowth?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
ef429f19_8363_46ca_aa6a_7c66a9b8817e-------)

in

[Lessons For the New Stock Market and Digital Marketplace

](https://medium.com/lessons-for-the-new-stock-market-and-
digital?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
ef429f19_8363_46ca_aa6a_7c66a9b8817e-------)

## How To Make Money If Bitcoin Crashes (Or Lose Smaller)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*f3Dif5CoyvaJ8O84YQm0Vw.png)](/lessons-
for-the-new-stock-market-and-digital/how-to-make-money-if-bitcoin-crashes-or-
lose-smaller-845ac8e6528d?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------ef429f19_8363_46ca_aa6a_7c66a9b8817e-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

