[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/758ec52f64ca&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Bitwise Asset
Management](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*d0LAMHWy1EpE6il-9nS6oA.png)](https://medium.com/bitwise-
asset-management?source=post_page-----
758ec52f64ca--------------------------------)

Published in

[Bitwise Asset Management

](https://medium.com/bitwise-asset-management?source=post_page-----
758ec52f64ca--------------------------------)

[![Bitwise](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*qM6bSBp1qCs_nSsngDkq2Q.png)](/@bitwise.invest?source=post_page
-----758ec52f64ca--------------------------------)

[Bitwise](/@bitwise.invest?source=post_page-----
758ec52f64ca--------------------------------)

Follow

Mar 29, 2018

·

4 min read

# Bitwise Opens World’s First Cryptocurrency Index Fund To Retirement Accounts

SAN FRANCISCO, March 29, 2018 — [Bitwise Asset
Management](https://www.bitwiseinvestments.com/), creator of the world’s first
cryptocurrency index fund, the HOLD 10 Private Index Fund, announced today
that the fund now supports investment from self-directed individual retirement
accounts (IRAs). Investors who meet basic guidelines for accreditation may
invest in the fund immediately.

“We have a strong belief in the long-term potential for cryptoassets, and in
many ways, retirement accounts are a perfect place for people to invest in
that potential and on that time scale,” said Hunter Horsley, CEO, Bitwise
Asset Management. “Investing through an IRA has been a common request, and
we’re glad to be able to support it.”

Bitwise is currently integrated with two major self-directed IRA custodians —
Kingdom Trust and Entrust — to handle incoming accounts. It is working to add
additional custodians.

“The idea of delivering cryptoassets in an IRA has been around for a while,
but existing vehicles come with fees as high as 15%, limited diversification,
or both,” said Horsley. “The HOLD 10 offers low-cost, convenient, diversified,
and managed access to the cryptocurrency market.”

The HOLD 10 Private Index Fund is a market-cap-weighted fund of the 10 largest
cryptocurrencies, rebalanced monthly. Assets are kept in 100% cold storage and
are audited annually. The fund launched in late 2017 and is available to
accredited investors, which include individuals with more than $200,000 in
annual income ($300,000 for couples) or more than $1 million in net assets.
The fund charges a 2.5% annual management fee, with no hidden costs or
performance fees.

“As the cryptocurrency market matures, the data increasingly support the idea
that cryptoassets may offer the possibility of strong returns while providing
low correlations to traditional asset classes, including equities, bonds, and
commodities,” said Matt Hougan, global head of research for Bitwise. “That’s a
relatively rare combination.”

“There is also reason to believe that long-term returns may be negatively
correlated to inflation and weakness in the U.S. dollar and other major
currencies,” added Hougan. “As such, a small allocation to cryptocurrencies in
a diversified portfolio may make sense for the right kind of investor.”

[Bitwise Asset Management](https://www.bitwiseinvestments.com/) is backed by
leading institutional and individual investors including Khosla Ventures,
General Catalyst, Blockchain Capital, Naval Ravikant, David Sacks, Elad Gil,
Adam Nash, Adam Ludwin, Suna Said, Avichal Garg, and others.

 **About Bitwise Asset Management  
** Founded in 2017, Bitwise Asset Management is a cryptocurrency asset manager
backed by institutional investors. The firm is a partner to individuals,
financial advisors, family offices, investment managers and institutions in
navigating cryptocurrency. Bitwise develops funds, indexes, insight, and other
services. The team behind Bitwise has expertise in technology, security, and
finance. The firm is based in San Francisco. For more information, visit
[www.bitwiseinvestments.com](http://www.bitwiseinvestments.com/)

 **For More Information  
**[ **www.bitwiseinvestments.com**](http://www.bitwiseinvestments.com/)

 **Media:  
** Hewes Communications, Inc.  
Tucker Hewes, 212.207.9451  
[tucker@hewescomm.com](mailto:tucker@hewescomm.com)

 _Bitwise Asset Management, Inc. and its affiliates (collectively, the
“Manager”) are furnishing this release (this “Release”) to sophisticated
prospective investors for informational purposes only in relation to a
potential opportunity to subscribe for limited liability company interests
(“Interests”) in Bitwise HOLD 10 Private Index Fund, LLC (the “Fund”). This is
neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation for an offer to buy Interests in
the Bitwise HOLD 10 Private Index Fund, LLC. Any offer to sell or solicitation
of an offer to buy Interests will be made solely through definitive offering
documents, identified as such, in respect of the Fund in compliance with the
terms of all applicable securities and other laws. Such definitive offering
documents, if any, will describe risks related to an investment in the Fund
(including loss of the entire investment) and will qualify in their entirety
the information set forth in this Release._

 ** _No Advice on Investment; Risk of Loss_**

 _Prior to making any investment decision in respect of the Fund, each
investor must undertake its own independent examination and investigation of
the Fund, including the merits and risks involved in an investment in the
Interests, and must base its investment decision — including a determination
whether Interests would be a suitable investment for the investor — on such
examination and investigation and must not rely on the Manager or the Fund in
making such investment decision. Prospective investors must not construe the
contents of this Release as legal, tax, investment, or other advice. Each
prospective investor is urged to consult with its own advisors with respect to
legal, tax, regulatory, financial, accounting and similar consequences of
investing in the Fund, the suitability of the investment for such investor and
other relevant matters concerning an investment in the Fund. This Release
contains an overview summary of the terms of the Fund. The summary set forth
in this does not purport to be complete, and is qualified in its entirety by
reference to the definitive offering documents relating to the Fund. Do not
place undue reliance on this Release._

 ** _Information May Change and Be Inaccurate, Incomplete, or Outdated_**

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Bitwise Asset Management](/bitwise-asset-
management?source=post_page-----758ec52f64ca--------------------------------)

Notes from Bitwise.

[Read more from Bitwise Asset Management](/bitwise-asset-
management?source=post_page-----758ec52f64ca--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Meland.ai](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dLXXC54E5p_QGrbPtsQQ6A.png)](/@Meland.ai?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Meland.ai

](/@Meland.ai?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Meland.ai Partners and Secures Investment from X21 Digital

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*6qIVhtMZCWslwRICLPC1jg.jpeg)](/@Meland.ai/meland-
ai-partners-and-secures-investment-
from-x21-digital-e0d874ef1604?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Jason
Decent](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@jmdecent?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Jason Decent

](/@jmdecent?source=post_internal_links---------1----------------------------)

## Two sides of a different coin

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*ZzdzaHxZH1mC904wFqVa2g.jpeg)](/@jmdecent/two-
sides-of-a-different-coin-e77295bb8c18?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Kingdom
Swap](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*u9vIK_k2BbzU5HOnmm1RYg@2x.jpeg)](/@kingdom_swap?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Kingdom Swap

](/@kingdom_swap?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## KSDUSD Implementation

](/@kingdom_swap/ksdusd-implementation-8aaa01bcfd07?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[[![NYALA](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*smC2efQG2atExkySBBUyvg.jpeg)](/@nyalade?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[NYALA

](/@nyalade?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

in

[Nyala Magazine

](https://medium.com/bloxxon?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Crypto Market Outlook 2022

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*-m4zvxp9FWZk_u7W8HQpVQ.jpeg)](/bloxxon/crypto-
market-outlook-2022-b9b8518dda37?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Ozymandias](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*kzvdCXzo9KRaEb6X_EG20g.jpeg)](/@paracelsusburns?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Ozymandias

](/@paracelsusburns?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## The Coming Bitcoin War

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*ITb-j8eMMBTjiyax5Cl5ig.jpeg)](/@paracelsusburns/the-
coming-bitcoin-war-ff3e96db3aad?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![OIG
Group](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*9cD3ZLfNm5rEP6iEPNqaRQ.jpeg)](/@oraclesinvestmentgroup?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[OIG Group

](/@oraclesinvestmentgroup?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## OIG Partners with SpaceY 2025

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*OrxdtiiKVZve4IS0cehecA.png)](/@oraclesinvestmentgroup/oig-
partners-with-spacey-2025-583c4fbb3912?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Sheesha
Finance](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dFgnLP6EGD8gaArmMuWNcg.jpeg)](/@sheeshafinance-
io?source=post_internal_links---------6----------------------------)

[Sheesha Finance

](/@sheeshafinance-io?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Sheesha Finance Partnership Spotlight: Plasma Finance DeFi

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*nDKNmyaBHpmqqnQxq2jBeg.jpeg)](/@sheeshafinance-
io/sheesha-finance-partnership-spotlight-plasma-finance-
defi-562728fce865?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Mohammed
Machraoui](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*WLp1uOFKLMIjUzJhgOE9uA.jpeg)](/@next_shore?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Mohammed Machraoui

](/@next_shore?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## How To Use Auctions To Sell An NFT For A Higher Price?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*pwe1oRd1X0VSMt4OqurOWA.png)](/@next_shore/how-
to-use-auctions-to-sell-an-nft-for-a-higher-
price-d09c55b9fdd6?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----758ec52f64ca--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
758ec52f64ca--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
758ec52f64ca--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
758ec52f64ca--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
758ec52f64ca--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----758ec52f64ca--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----758ec52f64ca--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fbitwise-
asset-management%2Fbitwise-opens-worlds-first-cryptocurrency-index-fund-to-
retirement-accounts-758ec52f64ca&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Bitwise](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*qM6bSBp1qCs_nSsngDkq2Q.png)](/@bitwise.invest)

[

## Bitwise

](/@bitwise.invest)

194 Followers

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fusers%2F5b2cd72c5d1b%2Flazily-enable-
writer-
subscription&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fbitwise-
asset-management%2Fbitwise-opens-worlds-first-cryptocurrency-index-fund-to-
retirement-
accounts-758ec52f64ca&user=Bitwise&userId=5b2cd72c5d1b&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Marshall
Reed](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*yvGlbKJzTddikACbCEP8ew.jpeg)](/@marshall-
reed?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
0d1b356b_a8ff_4ed4_9f36_a95c59377e91-------)

[Marshall Reed

](/@marshall-reed?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
0d1b356b_a8ff_4ed4_9f36_a95c59377e91-------)

## Martin Lewis Bitcoin Profit — Review

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*_zayYHscF2XLo4fI.jpg)](/@marshall-
reed/martin-lewis-bitcoin-profit-review-c8714d11488a?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------0d1b356b_a8ff_4ed4_9f36_a95c59377e91-------)

[[![Sean
Blagsvedt](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*YDhiqphHgJ4CrBBY.jpg)](/@seanb?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------0d1b356b_a8ff_4ed4_9f36_a95c59377e91-------)

[Sean Blagsvedt

](/@seanb?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
0d1b356b_a8ff_4ed4_9f36_a95c59377e91-------)

## Why Dara (and why Web3)?

](/@seanb/why-dara-and-why-web3-ea2258d68735?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------0d1b356b_a8ff_4ed4_9f36_a95c59377e91-------)

[[![Senjuti Bhattacharyya](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*Yq556kpk-
dsUHV0m)](/@senjutibhattacharyya?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------0d1b356b_a8ff_4ed4_9f36_a95c59377e91-------)

[Senjuti Bhattacharyya

](/@senjutibhattacharyya?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------0d1b356b_a8ff_4ed4_9f36_a95c59377e91-------)

## Asset Tokenization for Dummies (I’m the dummy)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*XurgSK84y5uv7g-s1oDUEg.png)](/@senjutibhattacharyya/asset-
tokenization-for-dummies-im-the-dummy-5a5318f06dfa?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------0d1b356b_a8ff_4ed4_9f36_a95c59377e91-------)

[[![Michael Ashley
Schulman](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*-xjKdQKW6y5NpuvXmM1wvg.jpeg)](/@rbtrage?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------0d1b356b_a8ff_4ed4_9f36_a95c59377e91-------)

[Michael Ashley Schulman

](/@rbtrage?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
0d1b356b_a8ff_4ed4_9f36_a95c59377e91-------)

## THEME: www. world war web — We were mentioning the unease back in mid-
November

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*DzkJGGbv6eyzO6sFg5zZjg.jpeg)](/@rbtrage/theme-
www-world-war-web-we-were-mentioning-the-unease-back-in-mid-
november-c5e197395f28?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
0d1b356b_a8ff_4ed4_9f36_a95c59377e91-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

