[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/c4c701779c22&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Bitwise Asset
Management](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*d0LAMHWy1EpE6il-9nS6oA.png)](https://medium.com/bitwise-
asset-management?source=post_page-----
c4c701779c22--------------------------------)

Published in

[Bitwise Asset Management

](https://medium.com/bitwise-asset-management?source=post_page-----
c4c701779c22--------------------------------)

[![Bitwise](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*qM6bSBp1qCs_nSsngDkq2Q.png)](/@bitwise.invest?source=post_page
-----c4c701779c22--------------------------------)

[Bitwise](/@bitwise.invest?source=post_page-----
c4c701779c22--------------------------------)

Follow

Jun 5, 2018

·

4 min read

# Bitwise Adds Former BlackRock VP, Commonfund Director as Head of Business
Development; Cryptoassets Continue to Gain Traction Among Institutional
Investors

SAN FRANCISCO, June 5, 2018 — [Bitwise Asset
Management](http://www.bitwiseinvestments.com), creator of the world’s first
cryptocurrency index fund, announced today that it has hired Martha Shear as
managing director and head of business development, as it continues to build
out its presence in the institutional market.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*K8bYRHrgcm5LYEoV)

Martha Shear

Shear was previously a director of business development for Commonfund, a
$24.9 billion asset manager focused on outsourced investment management and
alternative strategies for institutions. Prior to Commonfund, Shear was vice
president for institutional iShares sales at BlackRock, the world’s largest
asset manager, with more than $6.3 trillionunder management.

“I’m thrilled to join the team at Bitwise and help institutional investors
gain exposure to this fast-moving new asset class,” said Shear. “Today’s
institutions face significant challenges as they try to meet their return
targets. We believe that even a small and diversified exposure to cryptoassets
— properly managed by a team with deep experience in the space — has the
potential to help them meet their goals. I’m excited to sit down with forward-
thinking investors and talk to them about what rules-based crypto exposure can
do for their portfolios.”

Bitwise launched the world’s first cryptocurrency index fund, the HOLD 10
Private Index Fund, on Nov. 22, 2017. The fund seeks to track an index that
captures the 10 largest cryptoassets by inflation-adjusted market
capitalization, rebalanced monthly. Since its inception of Nov. 22, 2017,
through May 31, 2018, the HOLD 10 Private Index Fund cumulatively outperformed
a stand-alone allocation to Bitcoin by more than 17 percentage points, rising
8.3% against a 9.3% drawdown in Bitcoin.

“I couldn’t be more thrilled to have Martha join the team and lead our
business development efforts,” added Hunter Horsley, Bitwise CEO. “The
conversations we’re having with institutional investors, family offices and
financial advisors alike show that there is significant pent-up demand for
institutional-quality exposure to crypto. We think leading institutions will
begin allocating to the space over the next 12 months.”

Shear continues a string of high-profile hires that Bitwise has made in recent
months, including three major hires from the ETF industry: former ETF.com CEO
Matt Hougan, who joined Bitwise as the global head of research; former United
States Commodity Funds CIO John Hyland, who is now the global head of
exchange-traded products; and former New York Life Senior Vice President Teddy
Fusaro, who played a key role in the development of IndexIQ, a $4 billion ETF
asset manager, and is now Bitwise’s COO.

 **About Bitwise Asset Management**

Founded in 2017, Bitwise Asset Management is a cryptocurrency asset manager
backed by institutional investors. The firm is a partner to individuals,
financial advisors, family offices, investment managers and institutions in
navigating cryptocurrency. Bitwise develops funds, indexes, insight, and other
services. The team behind Bitwise has expertise in technology, security, and
finance. The firm is based in San Francisco. For more information, visit
[www.bitwiseinvestments.com.](http://www.bitwiseinvestments.com/)

 **For More Information**  
[www.bitwiseinvestments.com](http://www.bitwiseinvestments.com/)

 **Media**  
Hewes Communications Inc.  
Tucker Hewes, 212.207.9451  
[tucker@hewescomm.com](mailto:tucker@hewescomm.com)

 **Disclaimer  
** Bitwise Asset Management Inc. and its affiliates (collectively, the
“Manager”) are furnishing this release (this “Release”) to sophisticated
prospective investors for informational purposes only in relation to a
potential opportunity to subscribe for limited liability company interests
(“Interests”) in Bitwise HOLD 10 Private Index Fund, LLC (the “Fund”). This is
neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation for an offer to buy Interests in
the Bitwise HOLD 10 Private Index Fund, LLC. Any offer to sell or solicitation
of an offer to buy Interests will be made solely through definitive offering
documents, identified as such, in respect of the Fund in compliance with the
terms of all applicable securities and other laws. Such definitive offering
documents, if any, will describe risks related to an investment in the Fund
(including loss of the entire investment) and will qualify in their entirety
the information set forth in this Release.

No Advice on Investment; Risk of Loss

Prior to making any investment decision in respect of the Fund, each investor
must undertake its own independent examination and investigation of the Fund,
including the merits and risks involved in an investment in the Interests, and
must base its investment decision — including a determination whether
Interests would be a suitable investment for the investor — on such
examination and investigation, and must not rely on the Manager or the Fund in
making such investment decision. Prospective investors must not construe the
contents of this Release as legal, tax, investment, or other advice. Each
prospective investor is urged to consult with their own advisors with respect
to legal, tax, regulatory, financial, accounting, and similar consequences of
investing in the Fund, the suitability of the investment for such investor,
and other relevant matters concerning an investment in the Fund. This Release
contains an overview summary of the terms of the Fund. The summary set forth
in this Release does not purport to be complete, and is qualified in its
entirety by reference to the definitive offering documents relating to the
Fund. Do not place undue reliance on this Release.

Information May Change and Be Inaccurate, Incomplete, or Outdated

SOURCE Bitwise Asset Management

## Related Links

[http://www.bitwiseinvestments.com](http://www.bitwiseinvestments.com/)

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Bitwise Asset Management](/bitwise-asset-
management?source=post_page-----c4c701779c22--------------------------------)

Notes from Bitwise.

[Read more from Bitwise Asset Management](/bitwise-asset-
management?source=post_page-----c4c701779c22--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![CityNews](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*BwbedWpkpjOZOefyFkL2vg.png)](/@citynewsr?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[CityNews

](/@citynewsr?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## School uniform suppliers face delays due to supply chain disruptions

](/@citynewsr/school-uniform-suppliers-face-delays-due-to-supply-chain-
disruptions-bb6e299c4e60?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Sandro
Pires](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*Hqpe38Io8hBmvuYk.)](/@sandropires?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Sandro Pires

](/@sandropires?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## WinPlay’s 6 Million HEX Giveaway

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*YnUxE40ud0u3SpEDQ2xqng.jpeg)](/@sandropires/winplays-6-million-
hex-giveaway-66599aa7878b?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Mina
Protocol](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*PS93B9ts3XuCR1iso_Q5tQ.png)](/@minaprotocol?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Mina Protocol

](/@minaprotocol?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[MinaProtocol

](https://medium.com/minaprotocol?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Coda Protocol Announces Second Cohort for the Genesis Token Program to
Ensure Global Participation…

](/minaprotocol/coda-protocol-announces-second-cohort-for-the-genesis-token-
program-to-ensure-global-participation-818250e551a?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[[![M3TAxyz](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*I5xOfOUye64ZeNfoBYPNQA.jpeg)](/@M3TAxyz?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[M3TAxyz

](/@M3TAxyz?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

## Crypto Weekly Roll-up | Feb 21–27

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*iyxw743n3pr0IIVd6wevFA.png)](/@M3TAxyz/crypto-
weekly-roll-up-feb-21-27-3f40e71025c2?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![METASTORM](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Phg1jYf5qT4B5ElEfxleJw.png)](/@metastorm.app?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[METASTORM

](/@metastorm.app?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## ​​🔥METASTORM staking system!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*qGV_K_Jtoe7qjsEDNmECVA.jpeg)](/@metastorm.app/metastorm-
staking-system-f35b1a712c0d?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Cryptoweek](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*8ixr5yZ9txyFaDAW6lFMYw.jpeg)](/@cryptoweek?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Cryptoweek

](/@cryptoweek?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[Cryptoweek

](https://medium.com/cryptoweek?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Hedera Hashgraph Offers a Newer, Faster Twist on Blockchain Technology

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*LoKs5pWUKqSXZyzUZ09bnw.png)](/cryptoweek/hedera-
hashgraph-offers-a-newer-faster-twist-on-blockchain-technology-
dc8e0a1d5925?source=post_internal_links---------5----------------------------)

[[![CityNews](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*BwbedWpkpjOZOefyFkL2vg.png)](/@citynewsr?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[CityNews

](/@citynewsr?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## This is what is next to Baby Jesus in the Illinois Capitol

](/@citynewsr/this-is-what-is-next-to-baby-jesus-in-the-illinois-
capitol-c7d269514e90?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Andrei
Grigorean](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*ye1W8DKw6tPy9xVsW8x6Hg.jpeg)](/@Andrei1234?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Andrei Grigorean

](/@Andrei1234?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

in

[Blinknet

](https://medium.com/blinknet?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Blink Protocol— Anatomy of a transaction (part II)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*N5wiNAmAjyjcNaRX32kIEw.png)](/blinknet/blink-
protocol-anatomy-of-a-transaction-part-
ii-141bc2444a52?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----c4c701779c22--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
c4c701779c22--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
c4c701779c22--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
c4c701779c22--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
c4c701779c22--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----c4c701779c22--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----c4c701779c22--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fbitwise-
asset-management%2Fbitwise-adds-former-blackrock-vp-commonfund-director-as-
head-of-business-development-cryptoassets-c4c701779c22&source=post_page
--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Bitwise](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*qM6bSBp1qCs_nSsngDkq2Q.png)](/@bitwise.invest)

[

## Bitwise

](/@bitwise.invest)

194 Followers

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fusers%2F5b2cd72c5d1b%2Flazily-enable-
writer-
subscription&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fbitwise-
asset-management%2Fbitwise-adds-former-blackrock-vp-commonfund-director-as-
head-of-business-development-
cryptoassets-c4c701779c22&user=Bitwise&userId=5b2cd72c5d1b&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![PoW
Simo](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*p5PUgG2JQLhFUrH_)](/@powsimo?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------22e2b8a2_2ffa_476f_817f_adfeeb084e1a-------)

[PoW Simo

](/@powsimo?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
22e2b8a2_2ffa_476f_817f_adfeeb084e1a-------)

## How Web3 changed everything, and why we should use it to change the world.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*ELPT8aYZPNdvOlsm7Xzxbw.png)](/@powsimo/how-
web3-changed-everything-and-why-we-should-use-it-to-change-the-
world-2ae8140f446b?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
22e2b8a2_2ffa_476f_817f_adfeeb084e1a-------)

[[![Scaly
Bjorken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*nz_o8F1k3PBlTFgl)](/@ScalyBjorken?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------22e2b8a2_2ffa_476f_817f_adfeeb084e1a-------)

[Scaly Bjorken

](/@ScalyBjorken?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
22e2b8a2_2ffa_476f_817f_adfeeb084e1a-------)

## RFOX VALT Welcomes Wild Animals Into its Metaverse Ecosystem

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*aCLLwyjGhOBk9vyJWolc3A.png)](/@ScalyBjorken/rfox-
valt-welcomes-wild-animals-into-its-metaverse-
ecosystem-b242da95ac8b?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
22e2b8a2_2ffa_476f_817f_adfeeb084e1a-------)

[[![Darius](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*oNuGmY1FD0pv260sIg52mw.jpeg)](/@dariusdev?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------22e2b8a2_2ffa_476f_817f_adfeeb084e1a-------)

[Darius

](/@dariusdev?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
22e2b8a2_2ffa_476f_817f_adfeeb084e1a-------)

## How to do basic Token research to check it is scam or not

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Bl6Wp6ooDTqblAaBGsn_Yg.png)](/@dariusdev/how-
to-do-basic-token-research-to-check-it-is-scam-or-
not-7c2816bb4208?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
22e2b8a2_2ffa_476f_817f_adfeeb084e1a-------)

[[![Nature's
Vault](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*REOq1EqtrKmnC9a4NhbwPA.jpeg)](/@natures_vault?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------22e2b8a2_2ffa_476f_817f_adfeeb084e1a-------)

[Nature's Vault

](/@natures_vault?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
22e2b8a2_2ffa_476f_817f_adfeeb084e1a-------)

## The Damage Gold Mining Causes to the Environment is Worse Than You Think

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*7H-T_LFmpvTo5AxY)](/@natures_vault/the-
damage-gold-mining-causes-to-the-environment-is-worse-than-you-
think-e35486d66afb?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
22e2b8a2_2ffa_476f_817f_adfeeb084e1a-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

