[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/432dc6c8936c&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Bitwise Asset
Management](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*d0LAMHWy1EpE6il-9nS6oA.png)](https://medium.com/bitwise-
asset-management?source=post_page-----
432dc6c8936c--------------------------------)

Published in

[Bitwise Asset Management

](https://medium.com/bitwise-asset-management?source=post_page-----
432dc6c8936c--------------------------------)

[![Bitwise](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*qM6bSBp1qCs_nSsngDkq2Q.png)](/@bitwise.invest?source=post_page
-----432dc6c8936c--------------------------------)

[Bitwise](/@bitwise.invest?source=post_page-----
432dc6c8936c--------------------------------)

Follow

Aug 15, 2018

·

7 min read

# Bitwise Launches Three New Indexes; Announces New Index Advisory Board

 _Srikant Dash, Former Global Head of Research at S &P Indices and Global Head
of Indexing for Bloomberg, and Spencer Bogart, Partner and Head of Research at
leading venture firm Blockchain Capital, join Matt Hougan on Board_

SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 15, 2018 /PRNewswire/ —
[Bitwise](http://www.bitwiseinvestments.com/) Index Services, LLC, a
subsidiary of Bitwise Asset Management, creator of the world’s first
cryptocurrency index fund, today announced the launch of three additional
indexes covering the mid-cap, small-cap, and total-market segments of the
cryptoasset market as well as the renaming of the HOLD 10 Index.

The Bitwise Crypto Index family now features:

  * Bitwise 10 Large Cap Crypto Index (ticker: BITX)
  * Bitwise 20 Mid Cap Crypto Index (ticker: BITW20)
  * Bitwise 70 Small Cap Crypto Index (ticker: BITW70)
  * Bitwise 100 Total Market Crypto Index (ticker: BITW100)

To support the indexes, Bitwise also announced the launch of an index advisory
board, featuring experts in institutional indexing and cryptoeconomics:

  *  **Srikant Dash** , CFA, is the former Global Head of Indexing for Bloomberg and the former Managing Director and Global Head of Research at Standard & Poor’s Indices. Today, over $200 billion in ETF assets track indexes built by Dash. He was a long-standing member of the S&P 500 Index Committee.
  *  **Spencer Bogart** , CFA, is a Partner and Head of Research at Blockchain Capital, a leading venture capital firm focused exclusively on the blockchain technology sector and crypto ecosystem. Prior to joining Blockchain Capital, he authored Wall Street’s first industry report highlighting the use cases, companies, and potential of blockchain technology as a Vice President at Needham & Company.
  *  **Matt Hougan** is the Global Head of Research at Bitwise and former CEO of both ETF.com and Inside ETFs. He helped create the world’s first ETF ratings and analytics service (which now powers FactSet’s ETF ratings), co-authored the CFA Institute’s monograph on ETFs, and appeared three times as a member of the Barron’s ETF roundtable.

The Bitwise Crypto Indexes are broadly available throughout the financial
ecosystem, including via Bloomberg, Reuters, FactSet, and other data
aggregators, as well as the Bitwise website and API.

Bitwise also announced the creation of API access and complimentary
benchmarking for hedge funds, researchers, or others interested in high-
quality crypto index data. Currently more than a dozen leading firms,
including some of the best-known cryptoasset hedge funds in the world,
benchmark against Bitwise indexes. Detailed information on the API is
available [here](https://developers.bitwiseinvestments.com/#Bitwise-API).

The Bitwise Crypto Indexes capture the investable cryptoasset market as
measured and weighted by free-float and five-year inflation-adjusted market
capitalization. The index methodology features rules that mitigate risks
surrounding liquidity, security, exchange concentration, regulatory status,
and more, and aim to fully capture the investable cryptomarket opportunity.
Bitwise performs extensive research on more than 250 cryptoassets in the
course of building its indexes, and consolidates pricing on thousands of
individual crypto pairs representing 99.9% of all eligible cryptoasset volume.

“Our indexes are built from the ground up to respond specifically to the
cryptomarket,” said Hougan. “The methodology draws on best practices from the
modern indexing of equities, bonds, commodities, and fiat currencies, and
pairs them with crypto-native factors to ensure the indexes are safe and
replicable. We believe they are the best representation of the investable
cryptoasset market in the world.”

“One unique thing about Bitwise is the firm’s ability to blend deep, crypto-
specific expertise with in-depth knowledge of institutional asset management
and indexing,” said Bogart. “The Bitwise Crypto Index Advisory Board and the
family of Bitwise indexes launching today are proof of that.”

“Well-constructed indexes and index-linked products are key to the development
of efficient investment and risk management in any new asset class,” added
Dash. “I am pleased to help Bitwise bring such tools to the rapidly evolving
cryptocurrency market.”

In conjunction with the launch, Bitwise also announced it was changing the
name of the industry’s leading benchmark from the Bitwise HOLD 10 Index to the
Bitwise 10 Large Cap Crypto Index.

 ** _About Srikant Dash  
_** Srikant Dash, CFA, is one of the world’s foremost experts on indexing and
index construction. He spent 12 years at Standard & Poor’s, where he was
Managing Director and Global Head of Research & Design. While at S&P, Dash led
a team that created the industry’s first smart-beta products based on factors,
dividends, and themes. Today, over $200 billion in ETF assets track indexes
built by Dash. He also created the landmark Standard & Poor’s Index vs. Active
report, better known as SPIVA, which is the primary way active managers in all
asset classes are benchmarked to index performance on an industrywide basis.

After leaving Standard & Poor’s, Dash joined Bloomberg as Global Head of the
Index Business, establishing the first truly global, truly independent index
business focused on fixed income, commodity and currency (FICC) markets. He
executed several acquisitions of leading index properties and built the
platform that has made Bloomberg the largest FICC index provider in the world
today. He currently provides strategic advice to corporations, private equity
firms and asset managers on matters pertaining to benchmarks, index
derivatives, portfolio analytics, and ETFs. He is also an independent director
on the board of subsidiaries of the National Stock Exchange, the largest
Indian exchange.

 ** _About Spencer Bogart  
_** Spencer Bogart, CFA, is a Partner at Blockchain Capital, the general
partner of Blockchain Capital’s venture funds. He is a fundamental investment
analyst with a rare combination of deep experience analyzing cryptocurrencies
as well as traditional equity opportunities.

Prior to joining Blockchain Capital, Bogart was a Vice President at Needham &
Company, where he authored Wall Street’s first industry report highlighting
the use cases, companies, and potential of blockchain technology. He was the
most active bitcoin analyst on Wall Street, writing detailed reports and
research on bitcoin’s fundamental value proposition, price forecast, and
technical advancements. Bogart is widely cited throughout the bitcoin and
blockchain industry and is a regular speaker at industry and startup events.

 ** _About Matt Hougan  
_** Matt Hougan is Global Head of Research for Bitwise Asset Management. He
oversees the development of the Bitwise index methodologies, does fundamental
research on cryptoassets, and works to educate professional investors on the
role cryptoassets can play in a portfolio.

Prior to joining Bitwise, Hougan was CEO of Inside ETFs and Managing Director
of Global Finance at Informa, one of the world’s largest events and education
companies. Before joining Informa, He was CEO of ETF.com, the world’s leading
independent authority on exchange-traded funds. Hougan is the co-author of the
CFA Institute’s monograph on ETFs, titled “A Comprehensive Guide to Exchange-
Traded Funds,” and a member of the ETF Hall of Fame. He was previously Editor-
in-Chief of The Journal of Indexes, the first research journal devoted
exclusively to indexing and index fund management.

 ** _About the API  
_** Bitwise offers complimentary API and CSV access to its index data for
benchmarking and research purposes through a simple sign-up form, available
[here](https://www.bitwiseinvestments.com/indexes). Entities interested in
licensing Bitwise indexes to serve as the underlying for financial products
may contact the firm at
[licensing@bitwiseinvestments.com](mailto:licensing@bitwiseinvestments.com).

 **About Bitwise Asset Management  
** Founded in 2017, Bitwise Asset Management is a cryptocurrency asset manager
backed by institutional investors. The firm is a partner to individuals,
financial advisors, family offices, investment managers, and institutions in
navigating cryptocurrency. Bitwise develops funds, indexes, insight, and other
services. The team behind Bitwise has expertise in technology, security, and
finance. The firm is based in San Francisco. For more information, visit
[www.bitwiseinvestments.com](http://www.bitwiseinvestments.com/).

 **About Bitwise Index Services  
** Bitwise Index Services, LLC is a subsidiary of Bitwise Asset Management.
Bitwise Index Services develops cryptocurrency indexes and conducts research
in the area of cryptocurrency investing.

 **For More Information  
**[ **www.bitwiseinvestments.com**](http://www.bitwiseinvestments.com/)

 **Media:**

Hewes Communications, Inc.  
Tucker Hewes, 212.207.9451  
[tucker@hewescomm.com](mailto:tucker@hewescomm.com)

 _Bitwise Asset Management, Inc. and its affiliates (collectively, the
“Manager”) are furnishing this release (this “Release”) to sophisticated
prospective investors for informational purposes only in relation to a
potential opportunity to subscribe for limited liability company interests
(“Interests”) in Bitwise HOLD 10 Private Index Fund, LLC (the “Fund”). This is
neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation for an offer to buy Interests in
the Bitwise HOLD 10 Private Index Fund, LLC. Any offer to sell or solicitation
of an offer to buy Interests will be made solely through definitive offering
documents, identified as such, in respect of the Fund in compliance with the
terms of all applicable securities and other laws. Such definitive offering
documents, if any, will describe risks related to an investment in the Fund
(including loss of the entire investment) and will qualify in their entirety
the information set forth in this Release._

 ** _No Advice on Investment; Risk of Loss_**

 _Prior to making any investment decision in respect of the Fund, each
investor must undertake its own independent examination and investigation of
the Fund, including the merits and risks involved in an investment in the
Interests, and must base its investment decision — including a determination
whether Interests would be a suitable investment for the investor — on such
examination and investigation and must not rely on the Manager or the Fund in
making such investment decision. Prospective investors must not construe the
contents of this Release as legal, tax, investment, or other advice. Each
prospective investor is urged to consult with its own advisors with respect to
legal, tax, regulatory, financial, accounting and similar consequences of
investing in the Fund, the suitability of the investment for such investor and
other relevant matters concerning an investment in the Fund. This Release
contains an overview summary of the terms of the Fund. The summary set forth
in this document does not purport to be complete, and is qualified in its
entirety by reference to the definitive offering documents relating to the
Fund. Do not place undue reliance on this Release._

 ** _Information May Change and Be Inaccurate, Incomplete, or Outdated_**

SOURCE: Bitwise Asset Management

## Related Links

[http://www.bitwiseinvestments.com](http://www.bitwiseinvestments.com/)

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Bitwise Asset Management](/bitwise-asset-
management?source=post_page-----432dc6c8936c--------------------------------)

Notes from Bitwise.

[Read more from Bitwise Asset Management](/bitwise-asset-
management?source=post_page-----432dc6c8936c--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Aaron
Mithpasong](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*JrQMnIMQu30vQxn8)](/@boutatsada?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Aaron Mithpasong

](/@boutatsada?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Should you care about Bitcoin's environmental damage?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*XfoWDqj3fLGnehNC.jpg)](/@boutatsada/should-
you-care-about-bitcoins-environmental-
damage-b373ceafac91?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![David
Ameawhule](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*S0EjpILzuYjnqXRvB1QLYw.jpeg)](/@fOrex_dR?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[David Ameawhule

](/@fOrex_dR?source=post_internal_links---------1----------------------------)

## How to trade the golden cross and the death cross

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*t2Z2gygN0WMwUUDTeAuzsg.jpeg)](/@fOrex_dR/how-
to-trade-the-golden-cross-and-the-death-
cross-4cd6b9c215b6?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Tamas
Blummer](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*X-N7dGmANTKhdptXDImyrw.jpeg)](/@tamas.blummer?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Tamas Blummer

](/@tamas.blummer?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## There Can Be Only One

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*Ccw6V3_xyKGOkt2P)](/@tamas.blummer/there-
can-be-only-one-8300fb13d31c?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Sino Global
Capital](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*LatO4Fz_78gIeLU7dfzqJg.png)](/@sinoglobalcap?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Sino Global Capital

](/@sinoglobalcap?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Why we invested in Maps.me

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*bkNIrzGsAg4AoS6X0Pvfbw.png)](/@sinoglobalcap/why-
we-invested-in-maps-me-3cfe05677bd3?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Rosendaszesterniakfdi](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*MfF8FLtaHXk68940)](/@rosendaszesterniakfdi85?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Rosendaszesterniakfdi

](/@rosendaszesterniakfdi85?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## what i have been waiting for has come !

](/@rosendaszesterniakfdi85/what-i-have-been-waiting-for-has-
come-c1b60d5c7e5d?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Altcoin.io
Exchange](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*_tLbKUL_sTiolr60zLpLYg.png)](/@altcoin.io?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Altcoin.io Exchange

](/@altcoin.io?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[Altcoin.io Exchange

](https://medium.com/altcoin-exchange?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## World’s first Atomic Swap Wallet from Altcoin.io released

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*rQb2xRpop7ygMMrJZpw3vw.jpeg)](/altcoin-
exchange/worlds-first-atomic-swap-wallet-from-altcoin-io-
released-6f1cfc52d1cc?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Tonte Bo Douglas](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*x-V8G7HSw02cJJvTd-
ADvg.jpeg)](/@tontebodouglas?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[Tonte Bo Douglas

](/@tontebodouglas?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[Crypto Kingdom

](https://medium.com/crypto-kingdom?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Technical Analysis & Crypto Investing— What You Need To Know

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*agLf6V7z3i3Cfvu0MnHdcg.jpeg)](/crypto-
kingdom/technical-analysis-crypto-investing-what-you-need-to-
know-f46a0ed4a149?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Zaid
Jackson](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*PCy7IrbXbeaVwA2RP3i5Qw.jpeg)](/@zaid_jackson?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Zaid Jackson

](/@zaid_jackson?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Elon Musk Tesla Bitcoin Prime — Review

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*ARqQeJlhdgMNlOkQ.jpg)](/@zaid_jackson/elon-
musk-tesla-bitcoin-prime-review-3fb4dd744e0?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----432dc6c8936c--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
432dc6c8936c--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
432dc6c8936c--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
432dc6c8936c--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
432dc6c8936c--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----432dc6c8936c--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----432dc6c8936c--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fbitwise-
asset-management%2Fbitwise-launches-three-new-indexes-announces-new-index-
advisory-board-432dc6c8936c&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Bitwise](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*qM6bSBp1qCs_nSsngDkq2Q.png)](/@bitwise.invest)

[

## Bitwise

](/@bitwise.invest)

194 Followers

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fusers%2F5b2cd72c5d1b%2Flazily-enable-
writer-
subscription&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fbitwise-
asset-management%2Fbitwise-launches-three-new-indexes-announces-new-index-
advisory-
board-432dc6c8936c&user=Bitwise&userId=5b2cd72c5d1b&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Cosmic Cowboy](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*QDCZ-
ruEMgqf4JbggxKhLA.png)](/@CowboyTX?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------cd6c347b_9112_4373_9922_55ea9aaf6941-------)

[Cosmic Cowboy

](/@CowboyTX?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
cd6c347b_9112_4373_9922_55ea9aaf6941-------)

in

[Peeps Club

](https://medium.com/peeps-club?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------cd6c347b_9112_4373_9922_55ea9aaf6941-------)

## Peeps Club: A Vision Coming to Life

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*yrssCSGenVacobCy.png)](/peeps-
club/peeps-club-a-vision-coming-to-life-aa76d30dde88?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------cd6c347b_9112_4373_9922_55ea9aaf6941-------)

[[![Sri Dewi
Indah](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*fZw5r_5-DVV48VqV.jpg)](/@sridewiindah28?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------cd6c347b_9112_4373_9922_55ea9aaf6941-------)

[Sri Dewi Indah

](/@sridewiindah28?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
cd6c347b_9112_4373_9922_55ea9aaf6941-------)

## Improving Your Odds at Roulette

](/@sridewiindah28/improving-your-odds-at-
roulette-5e753e09db5b?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
cd6c347b_9112_4373_9922_55ea9aaf6941-------)

[[![Robo TRDR](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Tohe1FcLA-
VVZxfYM2W_PA.jpeg)](/@trdrrobo?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------cd6c347b_9112_4373_9922_55ea9aaf6941-------)

[Robo TRDR

](/@trdrrobo?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
cd6c347b_9112_4373_9922_55ea9aaf6941-------)

## How Bitcoin Transaction Works?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*r4UfwnqTxAktooz_z6zncw.jpeg)](/@trdrrobo/how-
bitcoin-transaction-works-72e805293dd5?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------cd6c347b_9112_4373_9922_55ea9aaf6941-------)

[[![pseudonymous](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*8Wr4da5VkRReL0W3QD43FQ@2x.jpeg)](/@pseudonymousx?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------cd6c347b_9112_4373_9922_55ea9aaf6941-------)

[pseudonymous

](/@pseudonymousx?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
cd6c347b_9112_4373_9922_55ea9aaf6941-------)

## Determinism Disguised As Destiny

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*CWkMLe-
Se3yg0cigmHG5hw@2x.jpeg)](/@pseudonymousx/determinism-disguised-as-
destiny-83ccfd0da965?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
cd6c347b_9112_4373_9922_55ea9aaf6941-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

