[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/1d717ac9715e&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Bitwise Asset
Management](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*d0LAMHWy1EpE6il-9nS6oA.png)](https://medium.com/bitwise-
asset-management?source=post_page-----
1d717ac9715e--------------------------------)

Published in

[Bitwise Asset Management

](https://medium.com/bitwise-asset-management?source=post_page-----
1d717ac9715e--------------------------------)

[![Bitwise](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*qM6bSBp1qCs_nSsngDkq2Q.png)](/@bitwise.invest?source=post_page
-----1d717ac9715e--------------------------------)

[Bitwise](/@bitwise.invest?source=post_page-----
1d717ac9715e--------------------------------)

Follow

Aug 28, 2018

·

3 min read

#  **Bitwise and Mark Yusko’s Morgan Creek Digital Partner to Create The
Digital Asset Index Fund, Designed For Institutional Investors**

 _“Every institutional investor should be considering an allocation to digital
assets right now,” says Morgan Creek CIO, Mark Yusko._

NEW YORK, Aug. 28, 2018 — Morgan Creek Digital, a leading digital asset
management firm backed by multi-billion dollar investment advisor Morgan Creek
Capital Management, today announced the launch of [The Digital Asset Index
Fund](http://www.digitalassetindexfund.com) to provide endowments,
foundations, pensions, wealthy families, and sovereign wealth funds access to
broad-based digital asset exposure. The fund is a partnership with Bitwise
Asset Management, the leading provider of cryptocurrency indexes and index
funds, who serves as the manager.

“Every investor should be considering an allocation to digital assets right
now,” said Mark Yusko, CIO at Morgan Creek.

“Increasingly, institutional investors are coming to us asking for exposure to
the space.” said Yusko. “We wanted to create a vehicle tailored for those
investors. Bitwise was the ideal partner to do this with because of their
institutional approach, experienced team, and track record of success.”

“We’re thrilled to partner with visionaries like Mark, Anthony, and the rest
of the Morgan Creek Digital team to bring this new fund to market,” said
Bitwise CEO Hunter Horsley. “They’re thought leaders, experts in asset
allocation, and have spent over a decade earning the trust of their clients
and institutional investors.”

The Digital Asset Index Fund combines Bitwise’s best-in-class quantitative
index rules and professional fund management with the ongoing oversight of an
index committee including Mark Yusko, Morgan Creek CIO and former UNC
Endowment CIO, as well as Anthony Pompliano, Partner at Morgan Creek Digital,
and Bitwise Global Head of Research Matt Hougan.

The Fund holds a market-cap-weighted basket of the top 10 largest digital
assets, reconstituted monthly. Assets must pass rigorous, rules-based
eligibility requirements including custody qualifications, trade concentration
limits and pre-mine restrictions to qualify for inclusion. All assets are kept
in 100% cold storage — the best practice for security — and are audited
annually.

“Institutional investors are seeing the market pullback as an opportunity
start building exposure to the space, and have been pushing us to get this
fund to market quickly,” said Morgan Creek Digital Partner Anthony Pompliano.
“We’re excited to have The Digital Asset Index Fund up and running, creating a
one-stop shop for institutional investors intent on securely capturing the
significant value creation taking place in the crypto market today.”

The Digital Asset Index Fund launches today and is available to approved
institutional investors and accredited investors, including endowments,
foundations, pensions, wealthy families, and sovereign wealth funds.

For information on the Digital Asset Index Fund, visit
[www.digitalassetindexfund.com](http://www.digitalassetindexfund.com)

— — — — — — — —

 **About Morgan Creek Digital**

Morgan Creek Digital Assets, LLC is a global asset manager providing access to
blockchain technology and digital assets for institutional clients and wealthy
family offices. The firm was founded by Mark Yusko, Jason Williams and Anthony
Pompliano, who are known for bringing traditional asset management strategies
to emerging markets and technologies. MCDA is backed by Morgan Creek Capital
Management, a multi-billion dollar asset manager based in the United States.

 **About Mark Yusko**

Mark W. Yusko is the Founder, CEO and Chief Investment Officer of Morgan Creek
Capital Management, LLC. Prior to forming Morgan Creek in 2004, Mr. Yusko was
President, Chief Investment Officer and Founder of UNC Management Company, the
Endowment investment office for the University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill, from 1998 to 2004. Until 1998, Mr. Yusko was the Senior Investment
Director for the University of Notre Dame Investment Office where he joined as
the Assistant Investment Officer in October of 1993. Mr. Yusko is the
President and Chairman of the Investment Committee of The Hesburgh-Yusko
Scholars Foundation at the University of Notre Dame, and President and Head of
Investment Committee of the Morgan Creek Foundation.

 **About Bitwise Asset Management**

Founded in 2017, Bitwise Asset Management pioneered the first cryptocurrency
index fund and is the leading provider of rules-based exposure to the
cryptoasset space. The team is based in San Francisco and combines modern
software expertise with decades of asset management experience, coming from
firms including Facebook, Wealthfront, BlackRock, JPMorgan, US Commodity
Funds, Goldman Sachs, and ETF.com. Bitwise is backed by leading institutional
investors and is a partner to high net worth individuals, financial advisors,
family offices, multi-family offices, investment managers and institutions in
navigating the cryptoasset space. Bitwise develops funds, indexes, models,
research, and other services. For more information, visit
[www.bitwiseinvestments.com](http://www.bitwiseinvestments.com)

Bitwise Investment Advisors, LLC, a subsidiary of Bitwise Asset Management,
sponsors U.S. and non-U.S. private funds that invest in cryptocurrencies.

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Bitwise Asset Management](/bitwise-asset-
management?source=post_page-----1d717ac9715e--------------------------------)

Notes from Bitwise.

[Read more from Bitwise Asset Management](/bitwise-asset-
management?source=post_page-----1d717ac9715e--------------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----1d717ac9715e--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
1d717ac9715e--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
1d717ac9715e--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
1d717ac9715e--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
1d717ac9715e--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----1d717ac9715e--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----1d717ac9715e--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fbitwise-
asset-management%2Fbitwise-and-mark-yuskos-morgan-creek-digital-partner-to-
create-the-digital-asset-index-fund-1d717ac9715e&source=post_page
--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Bitwise](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*qM6bSBp1qCs_nSsngDkq2Q.png)](/@bitwise.invest)

[

## Bitwise

](/@bitwise.invest)

194 Followers

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fusers%2F5b2cd72c5d1b%2Flazily-enable-
writer-
subscription&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fbitwise-
asset-management%2Fbitwise-and-mark-yuskos-morgan-creek-digital-partner-to-
create-the-digital-asset-index-
fund-1d717ac9715e&user=Bitwise&userId=5b2cd72c5d1b&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Cybershrooms](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Uh8YeTvF9Vx4xlX6qZ2irw.png)](/@cybershrooms?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------ab8e33a0_741c_4e17_8e86_77a914d0f7e2-------)

[Cybershrooms

](/@cybershrooms?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
ab8e33a0_741c_4e17_8e86_77a914d0f7e2-------)

## How to acquire SOL and mint Cybershrooms on the Solana blockchain

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*vuAYMCS6pWS5bmuR9YjgTQ.png)](/@cybershrooms/how-
to-acquire-sol-and-mint-cybershrooms-on-the-solana-
blockchain-12f72a6b1bfb?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
ab8e33a0_741c_4e17_8e86_77a914d0f7e2-------)

[[![Coinmarketrate](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*rzvOpJEhUnvgd2CA)](/@coinmarketrate?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------ab8e33a0_741c_4e17_8e86_77a914d0f7e2-------)

[Coinmarketrate

](/@coinmarketrate?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
ab8e33a0_741c_4e17_8e86_77a914d0f7e2-------)

## What is the Ethereum “complexity Bomb”?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*eIrDQQjwabbpa-
dbPLiA1Q.jpeg)](/@coinmarketrate/what-is-the-ethereum-complexity-
bomb-b86c80c12d9?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
ab8e33a0_741c_4e17_8e86_77a914d0f7e2-------)

[[![Arena Crypto and
Forex](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*zeIW0KIQpsZo1a2_kH8Ikw.png)](/@arenacfx?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------ab8e33a0_741c_4e17_8e86_77a914d0f7e2-------)

[Arena Crypto and Forex

](/@arenacfx?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
ab8e33a0_741c_4e17_8e86_77a914d0f7e2-------)

## January 2022 Market Insights | ArenaCFx

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*549Y4eqGEzfz3jK8.png)](/@arenacfx/january-2022-market-
insights-arenacfx-447e11dc0c91?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------ab8e33a0_741c_4e17_8e86_77a914d0f7e2-------)

[[![Trickle](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*kVO8tqrS1C8uMCFDvPRjuA.jpeg)](/@trickledrip?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------ab8e33a0_741c_4e17_8e86_77a914d0f7e2-------)

[Trickle

](/@trickledrip?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
ab8e33a0_741c_4e17_8e86_77a914d0f7e2-------)

in

[Trickledrip

](https://medium.com/trickledrip?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------ab8e33a0_741c_4e17_8e86_77a914d0f7e2-------)

## Trickle | How Template Smart Contracts Make Your Life Easier

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*FizVFqZbQGMExj7FhTTi5g.png)](/trickledrip/trickle-
how-template-smart-contracts-make-your-life-
easier-6bb1e2eb6af6?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
ab8e33a0_741c_4e17_8e86_77a914d0f7e2-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

