[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/6ad5551599e&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Bitwise Asset
Management](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*d0LAMHWy1EpE6il-9nS6oA.png)](https://medium.com/bitwise-
asset-management?source=post_page-----
6ad5551599e--------------------------------)

Published in

[Bitwise Asset Management

](https://medium.com/bitwise-asset-management?source=post_page-----
6ad5551599e--------------------------------)

[![Bitwise](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*qM6bSBp1qCs_nSsngDkq2Q.png)](/@bitwise.invest?source=post_page
-----6ad5551599e--------------------------------)

[Bitwise](/@bitwise.invest?source=post_page-----
6ad5551599e--------------------------------)

Follow

Jun 28, 2018

·

5 min read

# Bitwise Launches World’s First “Offshore” Crypto Index Fund For
International Investors, Meeting Significant Pent-Up Demand

 _Former BlackRock executive Richard “Rick” Arney joins as Independent
Director of the Board for the new Fund_

SAN FRANCISCO, June 28, 2018 — [Bitwise Asset
Management](http://www.bitwiseinvestments.com), creator of the world’s first
cryptocurrency index fund, the Bitwise HOLD 10 Private Index Fund, today
announced the launch of the world’s first offshore crypto index fund.

The Bitwise HOLD 10 Index Offshore Fund, Ltd. aims to track the returns of
Bitwise’s HOLD 10 Index, a market-cap-weighted index of the 10 largest
cryptocurrencies. The fund is an exempted company incorporated in the Cayman
Islands, and is intended for international and tax-exempt U.S. investors
seeking rules-based exposure to crypto markets.

“We’ve received more than 2,500 inbound requests from international investors
looking to invest in the HOLD 10,” said Hunter Horsley, CEO of Bitwise Asset
Management, referring to the U.S.-domiciled fund launched in November 2017.
“We’re delighted to bring the same high-quality exposure we offer in our U.S.
fund to the offshore market, and look forward to serving international
partners and tax-exempt U.S. investors with this new vehicle.”

The HOLD 10 Index captures approximately 80% of the total market
capitalization of the cryptocurrency market, subject to liquidity,
concentration and custody limitations. On a backtested basis, from Jan. 1,
2017 through May 31, 2018, the index rose 1,139%, compared to 677% for Bitcoin
alone.* [More information is available
here.](https://www.bitwiseinvestments.com/index)

The Offshore Fund is open and accepting subscriptions. It is available in two
classes: an Investor Class with a minimum investment of $100,000 and a unitary
expense ratio of 2.5%; and an Institutional Class with a minimum investment of
$1 million and a unitary expense ratio of 2.0%. The Fund offers weekly
liquidity.

Bitwise also announced that Richard “Rick” Arney is joining as independent
director of the board for the fund. He served as head of the Hedge Fund Group
and global head of Alternatives Distribution at BlackRock. Arney has
substantial experience in governance matters, and previously served on the
Corporate Governance and Responsible Investment Committee of BlackRock. In
addition to his role as director of this fund, Arney serves as the independent
chairman of the Lending Club Fund Governance Board, where he provides
fiduciary, compliance, and risk oversight for a variety of investment funds.

“I’m thrilled to play a role in helping international and tax-exempt U.S.
investors gain institutional-quality exposure to the rapidly emerging
cryptocurrency market,” said Arney. “Bitwise is a pioneer in the crypto space.
The launch of this fund is the next logical step in its efforts to make it
easy for all investors to have safe, secure, and diversified exposure to
cryptoassets.”

Bitwise Asset Management is a pioneer in the cryptocurrency asset management
space. It is backed by leading institutional and individual investors,
including Khosla Ventures, General Catalyst, Blockchain Capital, Naval
Ravikant, David Sacks, Elad Gil, Adam Nash, Adam Ludwin, Suna Said and Avichal
Garg.

 **About Bitwise Asset Management  
** Founded in 2017, Bitwise Asset Management is a cryptocurrency asset manager
backed by institutional investors. The firm is a partner to individuals,
financial advisors, family offices, investment managers, and institutions in
navigating cryptocurrency. Bitwise develops funds, indexes, insight, and other
services. The team behind Bitwise has expertise in technology, security, and
finance. The firm is based in San Francisco.

 **For More Information  
**[www.bitwiseinvestments.com](http://www.bitwiseinvestments.com/)

 **Media  
** Hewes Communications, Inc.  
Tucker Hewes, 212.207.9451  
[tucker@hewescomm.com](mailto:tucker@hewescomm.com)

 **Disclosures  
** Bitwise Asset Management, Inc. and its affiliates (collectively, the
“Manager”) are furnishing this release (this “Release”) to sophisticated
prospective investors for informational purposes only in relation to a
potential opportunity to subscribe for redeemable, participating, voting
shares (“Shares”) in the Bitwise HOLD 10 Index Offshore Fund, Ltd. (the
“Fund”). The Fund is a Cayman Islands exempted company. The private placement
of Shares in the Fund may be offered to certain tax-exempt United States
accredited investors as defined in Rule 501 of Regulation D promulgated under
the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and certain non-United States persons pursuant
to Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933. This is neither
an offer to sell nor a solicitation for an offer to buy Shares in the Fund.
Any offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy Shares will be made
solely through definitive offering documents, identified as such, in respect
of the Fund in compliance with the terms of applicable securities and other
laws. Such definitive offering documents, if any, will describe risks related
to an investment in the Fund (including loss of the entire investment) and
will qualify in their entirety the information set forth in this Release.

Bitwise HOLD 10 Index performance prior to Oct. 1, 2017 represents a
hypothetical, backtested and unaudited return-stream that does not represent
the returns of an actual account. Index performance does not include the fees
and expenses that are charged by the Fund. Actual returns may differ
materially from hypothetical, backtested returns. Backtesting is calculated by
retroactively applying a financial model or Index-weighting methodology to the
historical data to obtain returns. The historical backtested performance of
the HOLD 10 Index was calculated by retroactively applying the Index
Methodology (a financial model, or set of rules for calculating Index
constituents and weightings) to a historical set of data in order to arrive at
hypothetical Index performance. This performance history is not the
performance of any actual account, but rather the result of applying a set of
mathematical rules to a set of historical data in order to arrive at the
hypothetical results of how the Index would have performed if it had, in fact,
been in existence during the historical period. The inception date for the
index is Oct. 1, 2017. Backward-looking performance cannot predict how any
investment strategy will perform in the future.

Performance of an index is not illustrative of any particular investment. It
is not possible to invest directly in an index. Exposure to an asset class
represented by an index may be available through investable instruments based
on that index. The Manager makes no assurance that investment in
cryptocurrencies based on the index will accurately track index performance or
provide positive investment returns.

No Advice on Investment; Risk of Loss

Prior to making any investment decision in respect of the Fund, each investor
must undertake its own independent examination and investigation of the Fund,
including the merits and risks involved in an investment in the Shares, and
must base its investment decision — including a determination whether Shares
would be a suitable investment for the investor — on such examination and
investigation and must not rely on the Manager or the Fund in making such
investment decision. Prospective investors must not construe the contents of
this Release as legal, tax, investment, or other advice. Each prospective
investor is urged to consult with its own advisors with respect to legal, tax,
regulatory, financial, accounting, and similar consequences of investing in
the Fund, the suitability of the investment for such investor, and other
relevant matters concerning an investment in the Fund. This Release contains a
limited overview summary of the terms of the Fund. The summary set forth in
this Release does not purport to be complete, and is qualified in its entirety
by reference to the definitive offering documents relating to the Fund. Do not
place undue reliance on this Release.

SOURCE: Bitwise Asset Management

## Related Links

[https://www.bitwiseinvestments.com](https://www.bitwiseinvestments.com/)

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Bitwise Asset Management](/bitwise-asset-
management?source=post_page-----6ad5551599e--------------------------------)

Notes from Bitwise.

[Read more from Bitwise Asset Management](/bitwise-asset-
management?source=post_page-----6ad5551599e--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![BabySwap](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*4Bks1ppOR57hvXJPIUGIaw.png)](/@babyswap?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[BabySwap

](/@babyswap?source=post_internal_links---------0----------------------------)

## Encore! AIRT comes back to the field!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*H0LL1PRHvixmD9P1crtZfw.png)](/@babyswap/encore-
airt-comes-back-to-the-field-828005575ba3?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![John
Foss](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*4B93rofWic6vaOLWl959mA.jpeg)](/@johnfoss?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[John Foss

](/@johnfoss?source=post_internal_links---------1----------------------------)

in

[The Monero Moon

](https://medium.com/themoneromoon?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## The Monero Moon (Issue 13)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*msXm05P9lXgx9ALv)](/themoneromoon/the-
monero-moon-issue-13-84a35e91f889?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Jess
Lu](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Tkv9z9zwz7dqymJQtVDgOA.jpeg)](/@jesslu123?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Jess Lu

](/@jesslu123?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Cryptocurrency Legal Landscape in South East Asia: Malaysia-Part 2
(Proposed Regulatory Framework…

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*P6fknSBugaTWiu1caQlYjw.png)](/@jesslu123/cryptocurrency-
legal-landscape-in-south-east-asia-malaysia-part-2-proposed-regulatory-
framework-fcea590f887d?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Asia
Coin](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*PMPPk2h9zImWQsfPTv1HIg@2x.jpeg)](/@asiax?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Asia Coin

](/@asiax?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

## Asia Coin Airdrop

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*ym_ZniRLY-
UX0YNUgm5VwQ@2x.jpeg)](/@asiax/asia-coin-
airdrop-7ae394a615?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![John
Foss](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*4B93rofWic6vaOLWl959mA.jpeg)](/@johnfoss?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[John Foss

](/@johnfoss?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

## The Monero Moon (Issue 2)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*PjGlshhlRxlYgoX2RJlMsA.jpeg)](/@johnfoss/the-
monero-moon-issue-2-c1e4e945ba14?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![SuperSolids](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Aiq-
pHMWvj6oVkXC9_R0JA.png)](/@supersolids?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[SuperSolids

](/@supersolids?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## These auctions are about to change how NFTs are launched

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*LPdzUFqe2cJicFkFdRYoHA.png)](/@supersolids/these-
auctions-are-about-to-change-how-nfts-are-
launched-f2c3ab3bfd6c?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Vincent.P](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@adebayorpeter2016?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Vincent.P

](/@adebayorpeter2016?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## SWISS ALPS - CRYPTOCURRENCY MINING PLATFORM

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*tBlUdkJITgkHzVWp9-ATkA.png)](/@adebayorpeter2016/swiss-
alps-cryptocurrency-mining-platform-e35f42c2ab43?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[[![Cohenadam](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*yM1bpAD_vAuolypPtWMhNw.jpeg)](/@cohenadam74?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Cohenadam

](/@cohenadam74?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Terrorist Organization Hamas Owns At Least $7.7M In Cryptocurrencies

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*jwb0h2pbvhvTYB6x)](/@cohenadam74/terrorist-
organization-hamas-owns-at-least-7-7m-in-
cryptocurrencies-2d0aea8dc6e0?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----6ad5551599e--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
6ad5551599e--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
6ad5551599e--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
6ad5551599e--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
6ad5551599e--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----6ad5551599e--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----6ad5551599e--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fbitwise-
asset-management%2Fbitwise-launches-worlds-first-offshore-crypto-index-fund-
for-international-investors-meeting-6ad5551599e&source=post_page
--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Bitwise](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*qM6bSBp1qCs_nSsngDkq2Q.png)](/@bitwise.invest)

[

## Bitwise

](/@bitwise.invest)

194 Followers

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fusers%2F5b2cd72c5d1b%2Flazily-enable-
writer-
subscription&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fbitwise-
asset-management%2Fbitwise-launches-worlds-first-offshore-crypto-index-fund-
for-international-investors-
meeting-6ad5551599e&user=Bitwise&userId=5b2cd72c5d1b&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Dan
McDaid](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Z2ZuALgS7aGS9FeSP03DPw.png)](/@danwrites__?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------48126454_9429_4881_84db_a7c3bde0f305-------)

[Dan McDaid

](/@danwrites__?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
48126454_9429_4881_84db_a7c3bde0f305-------)

## NFT’s — how secure are they?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*ri7E6YdcvgDAkglN)](/@danwrites__/nfts-
how-secure-are-they-babfdfa12c4d?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------48126454_9429_4881_84db_a7c3bde0f305-------)

[[![Tran Nam Hung
Andrew](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*9Wb0mRl3ChW7lFWy)](/@namhung?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------48126454_9429_4881_84db_a7c3bde0f305-------)

[Tran Nam Hung Andrew

](/@namhung?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
48126454_9429_4881_84db_a7c3bde0f305-------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------48126454_9429_4881_84db_a7c3bde0f305-------)

## What to invest next in the crypto sphere

](/coinmonks/what-to-invest-next-in-the-crypto-sphere-
de3d7e6bba54?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
48126454_9429_4881_84db_a7c3bde0f305-------)

[[![Umang
Thakkar](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*5PjWNT_LRuN7Bj6JxWVGYw.jpeg)](/@umangthakkar005?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------48126454_9429_4881_84db_a7c3bde0f305-------)

[Umang Thakkar

](/@umangthakkar005?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
48126454_9429_4881_84db_a7c3bde0f305-------)

in

[Edvicon International

](https://medium.com/edviconedu?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------48126454_9429_4881_84db_a7c3bde0f305-------)

## Why is diversification essential for crypto investing?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*N6DbXuQxu3x-GsAxyxTq3w.jpeg)](/edviconedu/why-
is-diversification-essential-for-crypto-
investing-e160fc0a945d?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
48126454_9429_4881_84db_a7c3bde0f305-------)

[[![Joshua
Loo](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*MswKUTRnnFeEcQS0)](/@joshua-
loo?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
48126454_9429_4881_84db_a7c3bde0f305-------)

[Joshua Loo

](/@joshua-loo?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
48126454_9429_4881_84db_a7c3bde0f305-------)

in

[Singapore Real Estate Articles

](https://medium.com/singapore-real-estate-articles?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------48126454_9429_4881_84db_a7c3bde0f305-------)

## Here’s How High Yield Crypto Farms Can Finance Your Property Purchases

![Here’s How High Yield Crypto Farms Can Finance YOur Property
Purchase](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*tmwrDvccdi0M-yl9cKyT7Q.png)](/singapore-
real-estate-articles/heres-how-high-yield-crypto-farms-can-finance-your-
property-purchases-324e3463886a?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------48126454_9429_4881_84db_a7c3bde0f305-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

