_Continues from[Part 2](https://konrad-
graf.squarespace.com/blog1/2016/7/8/block-size-political-economy-follow-
up-2-market-intervention-through-voluntary-community-rules)._

One popular argument compares the Bitcoin block size limit to the coin
production schedule that sets up a terminal maximum of 21 million bitcoins
that can ever be created. Raising the block size limit, this argument
continues, could set a precedent for changing the coin production schedule,
and then what? Changing the block size limit opens up a slippery slope that
could threaten to lead to the end of cryptocurrency standards and boundaries.
Just as the coin limit is an essential value proposition of Bitcoin, so other
types of limits must be conservatively protected as well.

How can this type of argument be considered?

First, note that this represents an approach opposite to the one I have taken.
I have identified and discussed the block size limit as something uniquely and
importantly _different_ within Bitcoin from an economic standpoint. The above
argument, in contrast, presents these different “limits” as quite similar to
one another for this purpose and therefore ripe for analogizing.

Next, one might note how Bitcoin started with its production schedule already
in place, whereas the block size limit was added about 20 months later and at
just under 1,200 times larger than the average block size of the time. The
limit’s original proponents defended it from critics as a merely temporary
measure and thus of no real concern.

A common retort to such observations is, in effect, “that was then, this is
now.” The project is at a more advanced stage. The current developers have
more experience and a more mature view than the early pioneers. The system now
carries far more value and the stakes are higher. Today, we can no longer
afford to be so cavalier as to just put a supposedly temporary limit right
into the protocol code where it could prove difficult to change later…

That is…we can no longer be so cavalier as to just remove such a previously
cavalierly added temporary limit...That is…it is time to move on from reciting
old founder tales and look to the present concerns.

And indeed, such matters of historical and technical interpretation are
subject to many differing assessments. However, there is an altogether
different and more enduring level on which to consider this matter. There are
substantive economic distinctions between a block size limit and a coin
production schedule that render the two remarkably different in kind and thus
weaker objects for analogy than they could at first appear.

 **When “any number will do” and when it will not**

This is because raising the total quantity of a monetary unit by changing its
production schedule has completely different types of effects from changing
the total quantity of a given service that can be provided. Producing an
increased quantity of a given cryptocurrency is entirely unlike producing an
increased quantity of transaction-inclusion services. This follows from a
unique feature of monetary units as contrasted with all other economic goods
and services. An arbitrary initial setting for the production of new coins
(which operates to define an all-time maximum possible production quantity)
works quite well for a cryptocurrency, but does so only for unique and
distinctive reasons.

With money, barring certain divisibility issues of mainly historical interest,
any given total quantity of money units across a society of users
_facilitates_ _the same activities_ as any other such total quantity. This
includes mediating indirect exchange (facilitating buying and selling),
addressing uncertainty through keeping cash balances (saving; the yield from
money held), and facilitating lending and legitimate commercial credit (not to
be confused with “credit expansion”). The particular total number of money
units _across a society_ of money users is practically irrelevant to these
functions. What is critical to a money unit’s value is users’ confidence that
whatever this total number (or production schedule) is, money producers cannot
_arbitrarily_ alter it, especially upward, so as to rob money holders through
devaluation.

![Subject to constraints of mineral reality.](https://images.squarespace-
cdn.com/content/v1/5720adbdc6fc0891cbcce17c/1467999880913-ULCCIDC841U8V3JOH3PP/image-
asset.jpeg?format=1000w)

Subject to constraints of mineral reality.

A hypothetical model of physical commodity money production on a free market
differs in certain important respects from both cryptocurrency and fiat money
and bank-credit models. We should therefore closely consider the meaning of
arbitrary with regard to these distinct cases.

With precious metal coins produced by ordinary businesses on a free market,
the number of units cannot be increased _arbitrarily_ for reasons rooted
directly in physical constraints. Each additional precious metal coin to be
produced requires specific scarce materials and energy combined with various
manufacturing and other business costs, from mining to minting. Each such coin
_is_ much like any other good produced and exchanged on the market in that it
is a product to be used in the market as money as opposed to a product to be
used in the kitchen as dinner. Material scarcity itself protects money users
from rouge money producers by preventing arbitrary changes to the quantity of
money units. Changes in quantity supplied reflect supply and demand for such
coins, including marginal production costs, as with other products.

In sharp contrast to this, a state-run system of fiat money and bank credit
supports “flexible” increases in the “money supply.” These _are_ arbitrary in
that, unlike hypothetical commercial precious metal coin makers, these legally
privileged money producers can generate additional money units at little to no
cost to themselves. Notes can be printed and differing numbers of zeroes can
be designed into printing plates as the denomination at no difference in
printing cost. Likewise, cartel-member bankers can issue “loans” of nothing,
filling customer accounts with what has been aptly described as “fountain pen
money,” limited to a degree by the current policies and practices of those
managing the banking cartel (“regulators,” etc.). Legal frameworks provide
_some_ protection for users of such money, most of the time (except when they
do not), but such protections are far weaker and less reliable than those from
the harder constraints of mineral reality.

Against this backdrop, some cryptocurrencies, led by Bitcoin, feature a novel
and innovative third way to protect money users from arbitrary increases in
new add-on supply. A production schedule can be specified within the effective
definition of what a given cryptocurrency _is_.

Now in considering the exact number of possible units of a given
cryptocurrency, consider two almost identical parallel universes, A and B,
which differ in only one respect. Assuming sufficient divisibility in both
cases (plentiful unit sub-division is possible), 30 widgetcoins out of a
300-trillion widgetcoin supply across a given society in Universe A carry the
same purchasing power as 60 halfwidgetcoins out of a 600-trillion
halfwidgetcoin supply across a given society in Universe B.

In each universe, one can buy the same kilogram of roast beef, in one case
with 30 units, in the other with 60. Since the 300-trillion versus
600-trillion total money supply is the only difference between these two
universes, it makes no difference whether the roast beef is bought with 30
units in Universe A or with 60 units in Universe B. Since the people in the
two universes are wholly accustomed to their own respective numerical pricing
conditions, their psychological and felt interpretations of the value
associated with “30” in the one case and “60” in the other, are likewise
indistinguishable.

Naturally, many individuals and organizations in any universe dream of having
“more money.” For example, considering that 20 units of a good is worth more
than 10, it is easy to equate having more units with having more _wealth_.
Twenty good apples represent an amount of wealth (ordinally) greater than 10
such apples do. This is also the case with holding quantities of the same
monetary unit. Twenty krone represents more wealth than 10.

But the crucial point now arrives: the foregoing “more is better” with regard
to money applies to the number of units in a given party’s possession, but
does not apply—as it does with ordinary non-money goods and services—to the
wealth of the society of money users as a whole. Viewed across an entire
society, intuitive associations from personal and business experience between
larger numbers and greater wealth do not translate into a way to raise overall
wealth. Political funny-money schemes with names such as “monetary policy” and
“credit expansion” instead produce only sub-zero-sum _transfers_ of wealth
from some monetary system participants to others. Such transfers produce
win/lose results in which some gain _at the expense_ of others, not to mention
the additional net losses from the transfer process itself (thus _sub_ -zero-
sum).

With Bitcoin, when the initial design was set— _but not afterwards_ —42
million units, or other possible numbers, would have been as serviceable as 21
million. _After_ the system launched, however, no _general_ benefits could
follow from increasing the quantity of possible bitcoins beyond their
initially defined schedule. Such a later increase would instead tend to 1)
reduce the purchasing power of each unit below what it would have otherwise
been, 2) transfer wealth to recipients of new add-on units away from all other
holders of existing units, 3) raise uncertainty about the coin’s reliability,
likely depressing its market value with an uncertainty discount, 4) create
demand for an analog of a “Fed watching industry” that speculates on what
might happen next with the malleable production schedule, and 5) give rise to
an industry of lobbyists, academics, and other experts dedicated to
influencing such decisions.

While the block reward framework does indeed also “transfer wealth” in a sense
to miners from existing bitcoin holders as in item (2) above, it crucially
does so only in a predefined way, knowable to all participants in advance. The
block reward schedule, defined before launch, provides a form of compensation
for mining services in the system’s early days. This has enabled the system to
evolve and succeed from its launch to the present. This follows not from any
arbitrary change to the production schedule, but merely from the ongoing
operation of the production schedule initially set.

 **One free pass only**

In sum, a peculiar characteristic of money units when viewed across an entire
society of money users provided a one-time and unique economic free pass for
setting an arbitrary number of possible bitcoins at 21 million. This free pass
could only be valid _before_ initial launch (prior to 2009, or at the very
latest, prior to the evolution of any tradable unit value). Changing the
schedule later, especially in such a way as to increase unit creation, would
have completely different and wholly negative effects from a systemic
perspective.

Now returning to non-money goods and services the case is quite different
again. The foregoing unique monetary free pass is entirely absent, whether
after launch or before it. When non-money goods and services are likewise
viewed at the level of a given society as a whole, “almost any number will do”
does not apply. An increased total quantity of a non-monetary good or service
supplied _can_ be in the general interest, not only in special interests. It
can be win/win and not win/lose. If there are more apples or cattle to go
around in a given society (as opposed to just more pesos), this _does_ tend to
lower the costs of acquiring those goods in a meaningful way. This _does_
enhance wealth in society, not just transfer it around. It represents a real
increase in production, not just a “flexible” money fraud as in the case of
arbitrary inflation on the part of money producers.

Miners provide one such ordinary “non-money” service when including a given
transaction in a candidate block. This is a scarce service provided (or not)
to a specific end user by specific miners. It does not fall under the unique
category of the total number of monetary units in a society of money users.
The total possible number of bitcoins, however, does fall under this unique
category. The two numbers differ in kind and for that reason make poor objects
for analogy. Both may, indeed, be viewed as “limits,” but it is important to
recognize the contrasting economic roles and natures of these two types of
limits.

