[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![Blockchain, e-gov and e-union: presenting at Romania Blockchain
Summit](/static/3fb016349ef2761c4df3652f3d6a6e07/e4796/rbs.png)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

## Blockchain, e-gov and e-union: presenting at Romania Blockchain Summit

By [Mihai Alisie](/blog/author/mihai-alisie/)

·

July 05, 2019

During 21-22 June, [a special blockchain
event](https://www.romaniablockchainsummit.com/) took place in the Palace of
the Parliament of Romania, also known as the House of the People, with the
official support of the Government of Romania through the Ministry of
Communications and Information Society.

For some context, this event took place in the second-largest administrative
building in the world (surpassed only by the Pentagon) with a height of 84
metres, a floor area of 365,000 square metres and a volume of 2,550,000 cubic
metres. Among other things, it is the heaviest building in the world, weighing
about 4,098,500,000 kilograms.

In other words, it's HUUUUUGE and a perfect backdrop for an epic blockchain
event.

To make things even more interesting, this event was organized while Romania
is holding the Presidency of the European Union. Thanks to my Romanian roots
and blockchain involvement over the last eight years, I was invited to be the
keynote speaker.

[ ![mihai 2019](/static/fa8a71ca74ba5fb1da8df38f33a60c63/1c72d/mihai-2019.jpg)
](/static/fa8a71ca74ba5fb1da8df38f33a60c63/eea4a/mihai-2019.jpg)

To my knowledge this might be the first event of its kind, signalling an
evolution in awareness and understanding from the authorities when it comes to
blockchain tech - from passively observing to actively encouraging blockchain
projects and opening a dialogue with the "blockchain industry" to create a
favorable business environment.

The president of the Romanian Blockchain Association opened with the question
_" why are we here?"_ and the Minister of Communication and Information
Society continued by sharing his desire to see more blockchain projects
setting up their base in Romania.

My keynote followed.

[ ![blockchain
egov](/static/6365841c7602f02054f332791e6a99d6/fcda8/blockchain-egov.png)
](/static/6365841c7602f02054f332791e6a99d6/63b67/blockchain-egov.png)

I took this opportunity to share the idea of "smart(er) citizens" and
"e-union" building on top of concepts like "e-gov," "crypto valley," and
"crypto nation."

[ ![smarter](/static/04bb699d5526591a790c7d7f63a47573/1c72d/smarter.jpg)
](/static/04bb699d5526591a790c7d7f63a47573/eea4a/smarter.jpg)

The presentation started by agreeing on a few terms like blockchain, e-gov,
and e-union and continued with some lessons learned while setting up Ethereum
in Switzerland and sparking the "Crypto Valley" idea.

[ ![1992](/static/a662c77f2f71f9b486d5140e192645c8/fcda8/1992.png)
](/static/a662c77f2f71f9b486d5140e192645c8/04aae/1992.png)

Then I proposed a thought experiment where we traveled back in time to 7
February 1992 when the Maastricht treaty was signed, and the modern European
Union formed.

[ ![27](/static/d5ea241d55fcc8bddbeb65f7e0fa47b1/fcda8/27.png)
](/static/d5ea241d55fcc8bddbeb65f7e0fa47b1/04aae/27.png)

The purpose of the thought experiment was to highlight how many of the things
we find ourselves using today as citizens have been envisioned before the Web,
smartphones and more recently blockchain, took off.

[ ![mental construct](/static/dde120f7481983da8a5a4c1ba007e1f2/fcda8/mental-
construct.png) ](/static/dde120f7481983da8a5a4c1ba007e1f2/098c1/mental-
construct.png)

In the diagram highlighting the European Union organs and the processes making
the mental construct work, I pointed out how we can "upgrade" the processes
and systems with better ones in terms of efficiency, transparency, and
cryptographic security.

[ ![id](/static/b179504989a0fcd1825a0721ee487dc0/fcda8/id.png)
](/static/b179504989a0fcd1825a0721ee487dc0/6a648/id.png)

I then touched on how everything from provenance to payments to certification
and verification of proofs can be enhanced with cryptographic systems like
DIDs, Verifiable Claims, and public blockchains like Ethereum.

[ ![e union](/static/b66bf3cd37cdbb0451f3ee69543e2769/1c72d/e-union.jpg)
](/static/b66bf3cd37cdbb0451f3ee69543e2769/eea4a/e-union.jpg)

I also focused on the power of standardization and what big difference it can
make when looking at the bigger picture: the European Union as a whole.

[ ![e union paradigm](/static/fa08eafc5cee6f196881ffc0adbad48f/1c72d/e-union-
paradigm.jpg) ](/static/fa08eafc5cee6f196881ffc0adbad48f/eea4a/e-union-
paradigm.jpg)

In this paradigm, member states can port the best ideas from across the Union
and can each focus on different parts of the challenge without having to
duplicate (or triplicate) the work already done by other members.

I also pointed out how the first steps towards the "e-union" paradigm have
been made through the [European Blockchain
Partnership](https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/news/european-
countries-join-blockchain-partnership) (EBP) agreement signed on 18 April
2018. The agreement was created to cooperate in the establishment of a
European Blockchain Services Infrastructure (EBSI) that will **support the
delivery of cross-border digital public services, with the highest standards
of security and privacy.**

[ ![e union slide](/static/2da7ba4f0489efea5b06aa44f5255633/fcda8/e-union-
slide.png) ](/static/2da7ba4f0489efea5b06aa44f5255633/68fef/e-union-slide.png)

Following this I offered a few examples of projects that are using blockchain
for various things from public land registries and commercial registries to
the UN World Food Programme using Ethereum to aid Syrian refugees.

In the end of the presentation I wanted to leave the audience with some
"actionable ideas" and not just a feeling that "things will change" in the
hope that "change" will actually happen because people follow through on some
of them.

[
![actionableideas](/static/533b14c225bbec83335048aebbb3a052/fcda8/actionableideas.png)
](/static/533b14c225bbec83335048aebbb3a052/aeac4/actionableideas.png)

I'm happy to say that the presentation was very well received!

[ ![thank you](/static/fb7b1df1ca83ef553414398138209ec3/1c72d/thank-you.jpg)
](/static/fb7b1df1ca83ef553414398138209ec3/eea4a/thank-you.jpg)

It felt like the people attending saw the opportunity and understood better
how everyone from citizens to businesses to public administration can benefit
from this new technology. Moreover, based on follow-up conversations, some
understood the potential of the bigger idea as well when it comes to e-gov to
e-gov interactions framed in my keynote as "e-union".

Following the presentation I participated in a few panels, one of them with
the Swiss ambassador at Bucharest, Arthur Mattli, on the topic of public
administration. All panels were interesting in their own way, but this one was
definitely a highlight.

[ ![panel](/static/a78a756027bced273abf1664ef03a8b1/1c72d/panel.jpg)
](/static/a78a756027bced273abf1664ef03a8b1/eea4a/panel.jpg) _From left to
right: Bogdan Almasi, Arthur Mattli, Mihai Alisie, Daniel Roca._

During this panel the Swiss ambassador has shared his insights when it comes
to the lessons learned within Switzerland as a result of Ethereum establishing
its headquarters in Zug and kickstarting the "Crypto Valley" phenomena.

[ ![panel2](/static/4bb83c097eee0aff03faf215a01271a6/1c72d/panel2.jpg)
](/static/4bb83c097eee0aff03faf215a01271a6/eea4a/panel2.jpg)

We also touched upon some deeper aspects of our society including the ability
for people to self-organize in face of natural disasters and increasing the
resiliency of communities of all sizes from small towns to large cities and
countries — however, not architected in a top-down fashion but in a
decentralized approach empowering people to act intelligently in the face of
real-time challenges.

Overall, I feel that this event was a significant step towards a better
understanding of the benefits and challenges brought by public blockchains
compared to centralized solutions in the context of public administration and
e-government!

[ ![team](/static/3c34ca41a1c21befbb8bfac69fb0cef7/1c72d/team.jpg)
](/static/3c34ca41a1c21befbb8bfac69fb0cef7/eea4a/team.jpg) _AKASHA,
representing! From left to right: Mihai, Roxana, and Lorenzo 🙌_

I am looking forward to seeing the first pilot programs with cities (or
nations) deploying their own AKASHA social networks to enhance the collective
intelligence of their citizens and become, in the process, smart(er) cities
powered by smart(er) citizens and smart(er) public administrators working
together for the common good!

If this sounds interesting to you or you have an idea for a pilot project for
your city, please get in touch with us at [[email protected]](/cdn-
cgi/l/email-protection#c2aaa7aeaead82a3a9a3b1aaa3ecb5adb0aea6)!

[
![letsdogreatthings](/static/47a369c00c2ea72776ebe7d537e4eb4c/fcda8/letsdogreatthings.png)
](/static/47a369c00c2ea72776ebe7d537e4eb4c/f8544/letsdogreatthings.png)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2019/07/05/Romania-
Blockchain-Summit)

