[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Blockchain Developer Report Q2 2020

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Blockchain Developer Report Q2 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/11/155844779614799575-150x150.jpeg)

June 2020

Posted by

Theo Turner

Technology Analyst

Theo is an R&D software developer working with blockchain, machine learning
and the internet of things. In addition to building applications for internal
use, Theo completes technical due diligence on new projects and assists
Outlier’s portfolio companies with technical capabilities....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=3187)

## An in-depth analysis of developer data revealing a year of meteoric rises
and falls

In 2020, a new entrant secured a top 5 spot in share of smart contracts, dapps
and daily active users. 3 top-20 protocols suffered greater than 50% declines
in developer activity, and one protocol saw a meteoric 931% rise in core
protocol development. At Outlier Ventures, we’ve indexed millions of commits
across thousands of repositories to compile a report on blockchain developer
activity over the past year.

## [Download here](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/OV-
Blockchain-Dev-Q1-2021-_v7.pdf)

Posted by Theo Turner - June 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/11/155844779614799575-150x150.jpeg)

June 2020

Posted by

Theo Turner

Technology Analyst

Theo is an R&D software developer working with blockchain, machine learning
and the internet of things. In addition to building applications for internal
use, Theo completes technical due diligence on new projects and assists
Outlier’s portfolio companies with technical capabilities....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=3187)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

## An open-source report

Outlier Ventures’ developer report was motivated by the need to provide
insights for the teams in our Base Camp accelerator, so that they can choose
their blockchain platform with confidence. No-one wants to build their
business on a platform that will die out, and how to avoid this is part of the
guidance we provide through Base Camp. While a number of high-quality
developer reports have been published in the past, such as Electric Capital’s
commendable work in 2019, no 2020 report is comprehensive in its coverage of
developer data.

Furthermore, where high-quality reports have existed in the past, there is no
way to verify that the data is true and genuine, as each relies on proprietary
technology that crawls developer data. There is no way of knowing if the
publisher inflates statistics for their friends, squashes statistics for their
competitors, or even if there is human error in the analysis. At Outlier
Ventures, we want to turn that on its head, so the full methodology, data
sources and code used for our report are open-source and available on our
GitHub.

## Enough talk, where are the devs?

The majority of major protocols saw a moderate decline in developer activity
over the course of the past year (no more than 20%). This includes Ethereum,
Bitcoin, Corda, Hyperledger, Ripple, Stellar and Cardano. The decline may be
attributed to COVID-19 leading to a shift in priorities from R&D to business
development across the industry. Furthermore, a rapid market decline over the
months of February and April likely led to a decrease in external interest and
therefore a fall in volunteer contributors.

## Change in active developers

The percentage change in developers building on each protocol over the past
year.

![Blockchain Developer Report Q2 2020 Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Screen-
Shot-2020-06-11-at-18.08.52.png)

EOS, Bitcoin Cash and Tron saw more significant declines in developer activity
(each greater than 50%). In the case of EOS (-86%), there is likely continued
decline following the 2019 launch of mainnet and core developers moving away
from the protocol (see later sections). The decline for Bitcoin Cash (-63%) is
likely continued fallout following the Bitcoin SV hard fork. This trend may
flatten or reverse as the event falls out of public memory. Tron’s (-51%)
decline may be due to negative price action.

Polkadot (+44%) and Cosmos (+15%) saw substantial developer activity growth.
This increase is likely due to protocols abandoning proprietary chains in
favour of battle-tested solutions in a post-COVID market with a reduced R&D
budget. Polkadot in particular launched its mainnet at the end of May 2020,
garnering increased interest from external developers. Growth at the current
rate is unlikely to continue, provided the Cosmos launch is indicative of the
future trajectory of Polkadot given their similarity.

## How about core protocol development?

Core protocol development is distinct from general developer activity in that
it refers to the updates to the code of the platform itself. Typically, core
protocol development is largely maintained by a single company with external
volunteer support; the latter is typically correlated with price action.

Over the course of the past year, core protocol development across the
industry was highly volatile. Among the top 30 protocols by market
capitalisation (plus Corda and Hyperledger), roughly an even number saw
increased and decreased core development activity. A large number of protocols
experienced reduced activity over the holiday season and a slow recovery,
likely due to COVID-19.

Theta (+931%) and Cardano (+580%) saw the largest increases in weekly code
updates. Theta’s meteoric rise is likely due to a combination of the launch of
its second main network at the end of May, recent price action and low
development activity mid-2019. Such growth is unlikely to continue. The reason
for Cardano’s growth in core development is difficult to pinpoint, though
likely due in part to recent price action.

MakerDAO (-98%), Tron (-96%) and EOS (-94%) saw the greatest declines in
weekly code updates. MakerDAO’s decline may be attributed to high development
activity around the launch of multi-collateral DAI toward the end of 2019 and
a failure to retain this momentum after the holiday season. Given MakerDAO’s
dominance in DeFi collateralization (see Further Reading), this trend is
likely to reverse. Tron and EOS’s declines are likely due to the same reasons
as with their active developer base.

## Greatest Declines

MakerDAO (-98%), Tron (-96%) and EOS (-94%) saw the largest declines in code
updates.

Commits (Top graph) Code Updates (Bottom Graph)

![Blockchain Developer Report Q2 2020 Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Screen-
Shot-2020-06-11-at-18.10.27.png)

## What’s the deal with Dapps?

Ethereum continues to dominate in its share of smart contracts (79%) and Dapps
(82%). EOS (9% / 9%) and Steem (3% / 2%) are a distant second and third.
However, considering developer growth and high likelihood of the introduction
of smart contract runtimes on the Cosmos and Polkadot main networks, each of
these protocols is likely to secure a significant share of smart contracts and
dapps in the future. However, they are unlikely to dethrone Ethereum in the
near future given its substantial lead and first mover advantage.

In contrast, daily active dapp users is a more competitive category. Note,
however, that Ethereum (32k) boasts more than double its closest competitor
EOS (14k). Future trends in daily active users are difficult to predict,
though EOS and Tron’s fall in developer activity and core development may be
reflected in active user numbers. As outlined previously, Cosmos and Polkadot
are likely to rise quickly in the daily active dapp user rankings following
the introduction of smart contract runtimes on their respective main networks.

## Daily active users of Dapps

Daily users of apps on each platform (not total platform users). External data
source: stateofthedapps.com.

![Blockchain Developer Report Q2 2020 Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Screen-
Shot-2020-06-11-at-19.01.45.png)

Most notably, recent entrant Klaytn has quickly secured a top 5 spot in its
share of smart contracts, its share of dapps and in daily active dapp users.
The reason for Klaytn’s rise in apparent popularity is difficult to determine,
particularly given modest external interest in the platform code.
Historically, such a situation would suggest artificial transaction inflation
(see CoinMetrics literature). Should this be the case, Klaytn’s share of smart
contracts and Dapps is likely to decline.

## Get the report

For the full report, including extensive data visualisation, as well as some
excellent further reading for 2020

## [Download here](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/OV-
Blockchain-Dev-Q2-2020-4.pdf)

Errata: the report states that the mainnet launch for EOS was 2019, this is a
typographical error. EOS' mainnet launch was 2018.

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

