[Konrad S. Graf](/)

  * [About](/)
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)
  * Evolutionary Health [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health) [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)
  * [Translation](/translation)
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)
  * [Blog](/blog1)
  * [Contact](/contact)

# [Konrad S. Graf](/)

  * [About](/)/
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)/
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)/
  * Evolutionary Health/

    * [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health)
    * [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)

  * [Translation](/translation)/
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)/
  * [Blog](/blog1)/
  * [Contact](/contact)/

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf) [
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A) [
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

# [Konrad S. Graf](/)

# Blog

# [Konrad S. Graf](/)

  * [About](/)/
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)/
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)/
  * Evolutionary Health/

    * [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health)
    * [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)

  * [Translation](/translation)/
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)/
  * [Blog](/blog1)/
  * [Contact](/contact)/

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf) [
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A) [
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

[August 20, 2017](/blog1/2017/8/19/btc-plus-bcc-showing-strong-combined-gains)

# [BTC plus BCC showing strong combined gains as market attention shifts to
next controversy](/blog1/2017/8/19/btc-plus-bcc-showing-strong-combined-gains)

[August 20, 2017](/blog1/2017/8/19/btc-plus-bcc-showing-strong-combined-
gains)/ [Konrad Graf](/blog1?author=5720adbcb6aa6055fa279727)

The combined price of bitcoin (BTC) and bitcoin cash (BCH) has risen about 75%
since the formerly single Bitcoin split into two chains on August 1.  Events
thus far appear to support my suggestion that the split could well be a net
positive for holders of bitcoin prior to it.

In my August 5 article, “[Descendants with modifications: Bitcoin’s new and
possibly beneficial evolutionary
test](http://www.konradsgraf.com/blog1/2017/8/5/descendants-with-
modifications-bitcoins-new-and-possibly-beneficial-evolutionary-test),” I
argued that a marginal shift away from talk and toward innovative action could
in itself prove a net positive. To at least some degree, an actual split would
enable claims that one approach or another was superior to be replaced with
practical reality checks across the board.

However, I also emphasized that the split was still a poor “test” from a
scientific standpoint. Not only do the chains differ in headline qualities—one
is activating SegWit and the other has revised its block size limit to 8MB
(already _two_ major variables in themselves)—but also in a whole list of
other confounders. For example, the two chains differ in associated
development teams and testing and review practices, which leads to contrasting
levels of market confidence in the different code bases as a whole. This
reflects far more than just the headline contrasts. In addition, the two
started out with widely differing hashing power levels and coin prices.
Nevertheless the split should provide _some_ way to proceed with implementing
respective visions of how innovation should progress, and to that extent could
well beat a continuation of “unmitigated talk.”

Since that article appeared, the BTC price first rallied dramatically while
the BCH price languished. One megabyte block size limit enthusiasts on social
media sought to out-compete each other in boasting about how decisively they
would “dump their bcash" (using a popular term of insult for bitcoin cash) as
soon as they could. When trading in bitcoin cash finally came up to speed on
exchanges, such commenters promised, BCH would crash as dumping of the latest
new "altcoin/shitcoin" began in earnest. Since then, one by one, various
cryptocurrency exchanges and wallets have announced support for BCH, with more
to come.

In the event, the BTC chain still has its own dramas to live through. A stark
reminder of this came with a blog post by BitPay instructing users in how to
move to software that implements phase 2 of the “SegWit2x” or “New York”
agreement, which calls for a revision of the BTC chain’s block size limit to
2MB in November, following phase 1, its recent activation of SegWit.

Full-fledged American-style “outrage politics" ensued against BitPay, as
opponents of the block-size limit revision portion of the SegWit2x framework
accused BitPay of fraud for not clarifying that moving to the BTC1 software it
was recommending to its customers would split them off from the portion of the
BTC network running Bitcoin Core software. Bitcoin Core software has merged
code that disconnects Bitcoin Core nodes from BTC1 nodes. Few to no active
Bitcoin Core contributors support the BTC1 project while a significant number
of miners and bitcoin companies expressed support for the SegWit2x agreement.

It is unclear how this will be resolved. Intransigence and belligerence reign
on social media between the vocal on the two "sides." Another chain split is
possible, once again over exactly the same issue, [the specific height of the
block size limit](https://news.bitcoin.com/konrad-graf-bitcoin-block-size-
economy/). This next split, however, might be less clean than the last, which
did have critical user protections in place, notably replay protection. A
scenario in which BTC1 and Bitcoin Core navigate into an unclean chain split
has the potential to leave Bitcoin Cash looking like the more stable option
for the time being. With a limit revision already behind it for now, it could
end up sitting on the hill overlooking the next BTC chain battle with a
detached attitude of: "Bitcoin Cash user unaffected."

After the BitPay post brought this next controversy facing the BTC chain back
onto the front burner of the market's attention, the BCH price promptly more
than tripled from $300 to briefly peak at over $1,000, while the BTC price
began to soften slightly.

The BTC + BCH total price, however, has continued to rise steadily for the
time being (see chart). As of this writing, the combination remains more than
$2,000 higher than before the chain split.

![BTCBCC speciation chart.jpg](https://images.squarespace-
cdn.com/content/v1/5720adbdc6fc0891cbcce17c/1503179290508-OXNU2GNJQVME3Q5EM5Y0/BTCBCC+speciation+chart.jpg)

Looking ahead, much will depend on the interplay between hashing power, mining
difficulty, and price. The dynamics of differences between the mining
difficulty adjustments on the two chains could have some dramatic effects as
mining power shifts in pursuit of profitability, resulting in follow-on
differences in block discovery times.

As I concluded my discussion on August 5, so I will conclude this one: “The
complex sequence of outcomes to ensue must now be seen in practice and over
time.”

 _[Update: The original version used BCC for Bitcoin Cash throughout, but this
code was already in use by another cryptocurrency. Since that time the Bitcoin
Cash community has clearly shifted to BCH, so in this text I have changed to
BCH where simple to do so (not in the title and graphics).]_

[__August 20, 2017](/blog1/2017/8/19/btc-plus-bcc-showing-strong-combined-
gains) / [__Konrad Graf](/blog1?author=5720adbcb6aa6055fa279727) /
[__[](/blog1/2017/8/19/btc-plus-bcc-showing-strong-combined-gains)
](/blog1/2017/8/19/btc-plus-bcc-showing-strong-combined-gains)

__[Bitcoin](/blog1/category/Bitcoin), [Innovation](/blog1/category/Innovation)

__[Bitcoin](/blog1/tag/Bitcoin), [Bitcoin Cash](/blog1/tag/Bitcoin+Cash),
[BTC](/blog1/tag/BTC), [BCC](/blog1/tag/BCC)

### [Konrad Graf](/blog1?author=5720adbcb6aa6055fa279727)

  * [__Interview: Bitcoin, blockchains, ...](/blog1/2017/10/10/bitcoin-blockchains-and-economic-theory-an-interview-with-konrad-s-graf "Interview: Bitcoin, blockchains, and economic theory")
  * [Descendants with modifications: ... __](/blog1/2017/8/5/descendants-with-modifications-bitcoins-new-and-possibly-beneficial-evolutionary-test "Descendants with modifications: Bitcoin’s new and possibly beneficial evolutionary test")

  * [About](/)/
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)/
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)/
  * Evolutionary Health/

    * [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health)
    * [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)

  * [Translation](/translation)/
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)/
  * [Blog](/blog1)/
  * [Contact](/contact)/

### Konrad S. Graf

Research and writing portal for the work of Konrad S. Graf. Focus areas
include monetary theory and bitcoin, legal philosophy,  evolutionary health,
Japanese translation, and Spacial Dynamics.

[Blog RSS](http://feeds.feedburner.com/Blog-KonradSGraf "Blog RSS")

[![Creative Commons
License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/80x15.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)  
This site is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

  * [ December 2020 ](/blog1?month=12-2020)
    * Dec 8, 2020  [Texas sues four states for violating the Electors Clause: Initial summary and comment](/blog1/2020/12/8/texas-sues-pa-ga-mi-and-wi-for-violating-the-electors-clause-initial-summary-and-comment) Dec 8, 2020 
  * [ December 2019 ](/blog1?month=12-2019)
    * Dec 24, 2019  [New paper: The Bitcoin Block Size Limit, Artificial Scarcity, and Code-Enhanced Public Club Governance](/blog1/2019/12/24/new-paper-the-bitcoin-block-size-limit-artificial-scarcity-and-code-enhanced-public-club-governance) Dec 24, 2019 
  * [ October 2019 ](/blog1?month=10-2019)
    * Oct 1, 2019  [Sound Money Strikes at the Root: A Review Essay on The Bitcoin Standard](/blog1/2019/10/1/sound-money-strikes-at-the-root-a-review-essay-on-the-bitcoin-standard) Oct 1, 2019 
  * [ April 2019 ](/blog1?month=04-2019)
    * Apr 26, 2019  [Justice as distinct from rule through law](/blog1/2019/4/26/justice-as-distinct-from-rule-through-law) Apr 26, 2019 
  * [ November 2018 ](/blog1?month=11-2018)
    * Nov 30, 2018  [Speaking with one-year-olds and beyond: Age-appropriateness, healthy authority, and social implications](/blog1/2018/11/30/speaking-with-one-year-olds-and-beyond-age-appropriateness-healthy-authority-and-social-implications) Nov 30, 2018 
  * [ December 2017 ](/blog1?month=12-2017)
    * Dec 20, 2017  [Why can't I see that Bitcoin Cash is a scam?](/blog1/2017/12/20/why-cant-i-see-that-bitcoin-cash-is-a-scam) Dec 20, 2017 
  * [ November 2017 ](/blog1?month=11-2017)
    * Nov 21, 2017  [Barbell and beef experiments—Lessons and customizations](/blog1/2017/11/21/barbell-and-beef-experimentslessons-and-customizations) Nov 21, 2017 
  * [ October 2017 ](/blog1?month=10-2017)
    * Oct 11, 2017  [Interview: Bitcoin, blockchains, and economic theory](/blog1/2017/10/10/bitcoin-blockchains-and-economic-theory-an-interview-with-konrad-s-graf) Oct 11, 2017 
  * [ August 2017 ](/blog1?month=08-2017)
    * Aug 20, 2017  [BTC plus BCC showing strong combined gains as market attention shifts to next controversy](/blog1/2017/8/19/btc-plus-bcc-showing-strong-combined-gains) Aug 20, 2017 
    * Aug 5, 2017  [Descendants with modifications: Bitcoin’s new and possibly beneficial evolutionary test](/blog1/2017/8/5/descendants-with-modifications-bitcoins-new-and-possibly-beneficial-evolutionary-test) Aug 5, 2017 
  * [ July 2017 ](/blog1?month=07-2017)
    * Jul 23, 2017  [Additional Issues with the Balance and Accuracy of the Anti-Musk Narrative](/blog1/2017/7/23/77vber91a23965ptgjnph82ktt51f9) Jul 23, 2017 
    * Jul 23, 2017  [A Mixed Hero: A Libertarian Reassessment of Elon Musk](/blog1/2017/7/22/hnbbsghwp2hf881mjakf4q2sjnxwh3) Jul 23, 2017 
    * Jul 9, 2017  [Outlines of a Unified Evolutionary Theory of Human and Environmental Health](/blog1/2017/7/9/a-unified-evolutionary-theory-of-human-and-environmental-health) Jul 9, 2017 
  * [ October 2016 ](/blog1?month=10-2016)
    * Oct 15, 2016  [Yes and Nein: Borrowing the best from German and American cultures (and not borrowing the worst)](/blog1/2016/10/15/yes-and-nein-borrowing-the-best-from-german-and-american-cultures-and-not-borrowing-the-worst) Oct 15, 2016 
    * Oct 2, 2016  [Ancient travel food meets modern travel: My ultimate paleo travel meal option](/blog1/2016/10/2/ancient-meets-modern-my-ultimate-paleo-travel-meal-option) Oct 2, 2016 
  * [ September 2016 ](/blog1?month=09-2016)
    * Sep 29, 2016  [SpaceX can get there, but biology a probable Mars residence limiter](/blog1/2016/9/29/spacex-can-get-there-but-biology-likely-a-critical-mars-residence-limiter) Sep 29, 2016 
  * [ August 2016 ](/blog1?month=08-2016)
    * Aug 16, 2016  [The curious case of the faster-healing knee and the larger steaks](/blog1/2016/8/2/the-curious-case-of-the-faster-healing-knee-and-the-larger-steaks) Aug 16, 2016 
  * [ July 2016 ](/blog1?month=07-2016)
    * Jul 10, 2016  [Block Size Political Economy Follow-Up 3: Differentiation from the 21-million Coin Production Schedule](/blog1/2016/7/8/block-size-political-economy-follow-up-3-differentiation-from-the-21-million-coin-production-schedule) Jul 10, 2016 
    * Jul 9, 2016  [Block Size Political Economy Follow-Up 2: Market Intervention through Voluntary Community Rules](/blog1/2016/7/8/block-size-political-economy-follow-up-2-market-intervention-through-voluntary-community-rules) Jul 9, 2016 
    * Jul 8, 2016  [Block Size Political Economy Follow-Up 1: Software Choice, Market Differentiation, and Term Selection](/blog1/2016/7/8/block-size-political-economy-follow-up-1-software-choice-market-differentiation-and-term-selection) Jul 8, 2016 
  * [ April 2016 ](/blog1?month=04-2016)
    * Apr 22, 2016  [Only the faster profits: A powerful health measure and why it is unadvertised](/blog1/2016/4/22/only-the-faster-profits-a-powerful-health-measure-and-why-it.html) Apr 22, 2016 
  * [ February 2016 ](/blog1?month=02-2016)
    * Feb 4, 2016  [Some misplaced explanations of bitcoins as tradable units](/blog1/2016/2/4/some-misplaced-explanations-of-bitcoins-as-tradable-units.html) Feb 4, 2016 
  * [ November 2015 ](/blog1?month=11-2015)
    * Nov 8, 2015  [Announcing new book on bitcoin and legal theory](/blog1/2015/11/8/announcing-new-book-on-bitcoin-and-legal-theory.html) Nov 8, 2015 
  * [ June 2015 ](/blog1?month=06-2015)
    * Jun 20, 2015  [Preview: “The market for bitcoin transaction inclusion and the temporal root of scarcity”](/blog1/2015/6/20/preview-the-market-for-bitcoin-transaction-inclusion-and-the.html) Jun 20, 2015 
  * [ March 2015 ](/blog1?month=03-2015)
    * Mar 11, 2015  [Bitcoin as a rival digital commodity good: A supplementary comment](/blog1/2015/3/11/bitcoin-as-a-rival-digital-commodity-good-a-supplementary-co.html) Mar 11, 2015 
  * [ February 2015 ](/blog1?month=02-2015)
    * Feb 15, 2015  [Jeff Volek presents research indicating low-carb also best way to improve lipid profiles](/blog1/2015/2/15/jeff-volek-presents-research-indicating-low-carb-also-best-w.html) Feb 15, 2015 
  * [ October 2014 ](/blog1?month=10-2014)
    * Oct 25, 2014  [Sidechained bitcoin substitutes: A monetary commentary](/blog1/2014/10/25/sidechained-bitcoin-substitutes-a-monetary-commentary.html) Oct 25, 2014 
  * [ September 2014 ](/blog1?month=09-2014)
    * Sep 19, 2014  [Bitcoin: Magic, fraud, or 'sufficiently advanced technology'?](/blog1/2014/9/19/bitcoin-magic-fraud-or-sufficiently-advanced-technology.html) Sep 19, 2014 
  * [ August 2014 ](/blog1?month=08-2014)
    * Aug 27, 2014  [A tale of bitcoins and $500 suits: Will a rising-value currency not be used?](/blog1/2014/8/27/a-tale-of-bitcoins-and-500-suits-will-a-rising-value-currenc.html) Aug 27, 2014 
    * Aug 21, 2014  ["Bitcoin 2014 Panel: History of Money & Lessons for Digital Currencies Today" with time-based outline](/blog1/2014/8/21/bitcoin-2014-panel-history-of-money-lessons-for-digital-curr.html) Aug 21, 2014 
    * Aug 19, 2014  [“Bitcoin 2014 Panel: Economic Theory of Bitcoin” with time-based outline](/blog1/2014/8/19/bitcoin-2014-panel-economic-theory-of-bitcoin-with-time-base.html) Aug 19, 2014 
  * [ May 2014 ](/blog1?month=05-2014)
    * May 21, 2014  [Gold standards, optionality, and parallel metallic- and crypto-coin circulations](/blog1/2014/5/21/gold-standards-optionality-and-parallel-metallic-and-crypto.html) May 21, 2014 
    * May 20, 2014  [The helpful fable of the "bitcoin": Duality models revisited](/blog1/2014/5/20/the-helpful-fable-of-the-bitcoin-duality-models-revisited.html) May 20, 2014 
    * May 1, 2014  [Bitcoin weekly weighted average price, July 2010 through April 2014](/blog1/2014/5/1/bitcoin-weekly-weighted-average-price-july-2010-through-apri.html) May 1, 2014 
  * [ March 2014 ](/blog1?month=03-2014)
    * Mar 18, 2014  [New paper: "Revisiting conceptions of commodity and scarcity in light of Bitcoin"](/blog1/2014/3/18/new-paper-revisiting-conceptions-of-commodity-and-scarcity-i.html) Mar 18, 2014 
    * Mar 12, 2014  [Another layer of distinction behind Tucker’s humanitarians and brutalists ](/blog1/2014/3/12/another-layer-of-distinction-behind-tuckers-humanitarians-an.html) Mar 12, 2014 
    * Mar 6, 2014  [Newsweek uncovers its own lack of integrity in alleged “Satoshi Nakamoto” discovery reporting](/blog1/2014/3/6/newsweek-uncovers-its-own-lack-of-integrity-in-alleged-satos.html) Mar 6, 2014 
  * [ February 2014 ](/blog1?month=02-2014)
    * Feb 27, 2014  [MtGox fiasco highlights advantages of Bitcoin and damage from regulation](/blog1/2014/2/27/mtgox-fiasco-highlights-advantages-of-bitcoin-and-damage-fro.html) Feb 27, 2014 
    * Feb 14, 2014  [Summary update on Bitcoin transaction malleability adjustments](/blog1/2014/2/14/summary-update-on-bitcoin-transaction-malleability-adjustmen.html) Feb 14, 2014 
  * [ January 2014 ](/blog1?month=01-2014)
    * Jan 13, 2014  [Legal and economic perspectives in the action-based analysis of Bitcoin](/blog1/2014/1/13/legal-and-economic-perspectives-in-the-action-based-analysis.html) Jan 13, 2014 
  * [ November 2013 ](/blog1?month=11-2013)
    * Nov 7, 2013  [Hyper-monetization reloaded: Another round of bubble talk](/blog1/2013/11/7/hyper-monetization-reloaded-another-round-of-bubble-talk.html) Nov 7, 2013 
    * Nov 3, 2013  [Expanded "On the origins of Bitcoin" paper with empirical supplements, other revisions](/blog1/2013/11/3/expanded-on-the-origins-of-bitcoin-paper-with-empirical-supp.html) Nov 3, 2013 
  * [ October 2013 ](/blog1?month=10-2013)
    * Oct 25, 2013  [Strong positive response to "On the origins of Bitcoin"](/blog1/2013/10/25/strong-positive-response-to-on-the-origins-of-bitcoin.html) Oct 25, 2013 
    * Oct 23, 2013  ["On the origins of Bitcoin," my new work on Bitcoin and monetary theory](/blog1/2013/10/23/on-the-origins-of-bitcoin-my-new-work-on-bitcoin-and-monetar.html) Oct 23, 2013 
    * Oct 3, 2013  [Bitcoin and social theory reflections: A review essay between Amsterdam and Atlanta](/blog1/2013/10/3/bitcoin-and-social-theory-reflections-a-review-essay-between.html) Oct 3, 2013 
  * [ September 2013 ](/blog1?month=09-2013)
    * Sep 15, 2013  [The labor, leisure, and happiness game: Psychology, praxeology, and ethics](/blog1/2013/9/15/the-labor-leisure-and-happiness-game-psychology-praxeology-a.html) Sep 15, 2013 
    * Sep 14, 2013  [Bitcoin as medium of exchange now and unit of account later: The inverse of Koning's medieval coins](/blog1/2013/9/14/bitcoin-as-medium-of-exchange-now-and-unit-of-account-later.html) Sep 14, 2013 
  * [ August 2013 ](/blog1?month=08-2013)
    * Aug 22, 2013  [Recommended: Provocative and important new article on Bitcoin and altcoins](/blog1/2013/8/22/recommended-provocative-and-important-new-article-on-bitcoin.html) Aug 22, 2013 
    * Aug 21, 2013  [A banking risk premium: Mt. Gox XBT/USD spread over Bitstamp](/blog1/2013/8/21/a-banking-risk-premium-mt-gox-xbtusd-spread-over-bitstamp.html) Aug 21, 2013 
  * [ July 2013 ](/blog1?month=07-2013)
    * Jul 25, 2013  [Tiger cub growing up? Bitcoin weekly average closing prices year over year](/blog1/2013/7/25/tiger-cub-growing-up-bitcoin-weekly-average-closing-prices-y.html) Jul 25, 2013 
    * Jul 22, 2013  [Bitcoin, price denomination and fixed-rate fiat conversions](/blog1/2013/7/22/bitcoin-price-denomination-and-fixed-rate-fiat-conversions.html) Jul 22, 2013 
  * [ June 2013 ](/blog1?month=06-2013)
    * Jun 30, 2013  [Now in audio on YouTube: Bitcoin and regression theorem article](/blog1/2013/6/30/now-in-audio-on-youtube-bitcoin-and-regression-theorem-artic.html) Jun 30, 2013 
    * Jun 20, 2013  [Bitcoins per gold ounce weekly close YTD](/blog1/2013/6/20/bitcoins-per-gold-ounce-weekly-close-ytd.html) Jun 20, 2013 
    * Jun 3, 2013  [The m's and b's of millibitcoin redenomination](/blog1/2013/6/3/the-ms-and-bs-of-millibitcoin-redenomination.html) Jun 3, 2013 
  * [ April 2013 ](/blog1?month=04-2013)
    * Apr 13, 2013  [Another bump on the road: Bitcoin and bubbles revisited](/blog1/2013/4/13/another-bump-on-the-road-bitcoin-and-bubbles-revisited.html) Apr 13, 2013 
    * Apr 11, 2013  [Short-term Bitcoin exchange trends as Rorschach tests of economic views](/blog1/2013/4/11/short-term-bitcoin-exchange-trends-as-rorschach-tests-of-eco.html) Apr 11, 2013 
    * Apr 6, 2013  [Hyper-monetization: Questioning the "Bitcoin bubble" bubble](/blog1/2013/4/6/hyper-monetization-questioning-the-bitcoin-bubble-bubble.html) Apr 6, 2013 
  * [ March 2013 ](/blog1?month=03-2013)
    * Mar 30, 2013  [A short Bitcoin commentary on "Deflation and Liberty"](/blog1/2013/3/30/a-short-bitcoin-commentary-on-deflation-and-liberty.html) Mar 30, 2013 
    * Mar 19, 2013  [IN-DEPTH | The sound of one bitcoin: Tangibility, scarcity, and a "hard-money" checklist](/blog1/2013/3/19/in-depth-the-sound-of-one-bitcoin-tangibility-scarcity-and-a.html) Mar 19, 2013 
    * Mar 15, 2013  [Individualism, collectivism, "mere" birds, and how to understand ice hockey](/blog1/2013/3/15/individualism-collectivism-mere-birds-and-how-to-understand.html) Mar 15, 2013 
    * Mar 6, 2013  [Bitcoin and social-theory research highlights: Digging for kryptonite](/blog1/2013/3/6/bitcoin-and-social-theory-research-highlights-digging-for-kr.html) Mar 6, 2013 
  * [ February 2013 ](/blog1?month=02-2013)
    * Feb 27, 2013  [IN-DEPTH | Bitcoins, the regression theorem, and that curious but unthreatening empirical world](/blog1/2013/2/27/in-depth-bitcoins-the-regression-theorem-and-that-curious-bu.html) Feb 27, 2013 
    * Feb 20, 2013  [Misesian action theory is an approach to social theory, not just economics](/blog1/2013/2/20/misesian-action-theory-is-an-approach-to-social-theory-not-j.html) Feb 20, 2013 
    * Feb 16, 2013  [Reeva Steencamp's final message, academic hubris, and a legal philosophy view of the case](/blog1/2013/2/16/reeva-steencamps-final-message-academic-hubris-and-a-legal-p.html) Feb 16, 2013 
    * Feb 10, 2013  [Bank robber chatting with Bill Murray illustrates self-control theory](/blog1/2013/2/10/bank-robber-chatting-with-bill-murray-illustrates-self-contr.html) Feb 10, 2013 
    * Feb 1, 2013  [Action-Based Jurisprudence II: Down under (and back again)](/blog1/2013/2/1/action-based-jurisprudence-ii-down-under-and-back-again.html) Feb 1, 2013 
  * [ January 2013 ](/blog1?month=01-2013)
    * Jan 15, 2013  [BOOK COMMENT | The Constitution was already perfectly clear to begin with](/blog1/2013/1/15/book-comment-the-constitution-was-already-perfectly-clear-to.html) Jan 15, 2013 
  * [ November 2012 ](/blog1?month=11-2012)
    * Nov 8, 2012  [Another mummer's farce gone by (and more rumors of wogs and dragons)](/blog1/2012/11/8/another-mummers-farce-gone-by-and-more-rumors-of-wogs-and-dr.html) Nov 8, 2012 
  * [ August 2012 ](/blog1?month=08-2012)
    * Aug 25, 2012  [The problem with shouting “Tyranny!” in a crowded theater](/blog1/2012/8/25/the-problem-with-shouting-tyranny-in-a-crowded-theater.html) Aug 25, 2012 
    * Aug 16, 2012  [Resolving the paradox of value](/blog1/2012/8/16/resolving-the-paradox-of-value.html) Aug 16, 2012 
    * Aug 10, 2012  [IN-DEPTH | Logic takes on the physics paradoxes: Review essay on The Spacetime Model: A Theory of Everything by Jacky Jerôme](/blog1/2012/8/10/in-depth-logic-takes-on-the-physics-paradoxes-review-essay-o.html) Aug 10, 2012 
    * Aug 10, 2012  [IN-DEPTH | Ron Paul, Flatland, and the left–right long con: Beyond the Nolan Chart](/blog1/2012/8/10/in-depth-ron-paul-flatland-and-the-leftright-long-con-beyond.html) Aug 10, 2012 
    * Aug 10, 2012  [Two types of A Game of Apples](/blog1/2012/8/10/two-types-of-a-game-of-apples.html) Aug 10, 2012 
  * [ April 2012 ](/blog1?month=04-2012)
    * Apr 1, 2012  [REVIEW | Liberty message in Hunger Games book much weaker in film](/blog1/2012/4/1/review-liberty-message-in-hunger-games-book-much-weaker-in-f.html) Apr 1, 2012 
  * [ January 2012 ](/blog1?month=01-2012)
    * Jan 22, 2012  [REVIEW | Primal Body, Primal Mind by Nora Gedgaudas](/blog1/2012/1/22/review-primal-body-primal-mind-by-nora-gedgaudas.html) Jan 22, 2012 
    * Jan 18, 2012  [REVIEW | The Paleo Answer by Loren Cordain](/blog1/2012/1/18/review-the-paleo-answer-by-loren-cordain.html) Jan 18, 2012 
    * Jan 18, 2012  [REVIEW | Four Laws that Drive the Universe by Peter Atkins](/blog1/2012/1/18/review-four-laws-that-drive-the-universe-by-peter-atkins.html) Jan 18, 2012 
    * Jan 13, 2012  [Is the left–right spectrum in flatland? A better way to graph Ron Paul](/blog1/2012/1/13/is-the-leftright-spectrum-in-flatland-a-better-way-to-graph.html) Jan 13, 2012 
  * [ December 2011 ](/blog1?month=12-2011)
    * Dec 31, 2011  [REVIEW | Cells, Gels, and the Engines of Life by Gerald H. Pollack](/blog1/2011/12/31/review-cells-gels-and-the-engines-of-life-by-gerald-h-pollac.html) Dec 31, 2011 
    * Dec 23, 2011  [REVIEW | Focused progress with Body by Science, but integration with proper running methods should be possible](/blog1/2011/12/23/review-focused-progress-with-body-by-science-but-integration.html) Dec 23, 2011 
  * [ November 2011 ](/blog1?month=11-2011)
    * Nov 11, 2011  [Who was it that lived at the corner of Tech and Humanities?](/blog1/2011/11/11/who-was-it-that-lived-at-the-corner-of-tech-and-humanities.html) Nov 11, 2011 
  * [ August 2011 ](/blog1?month=08-2011)
    * Aug 30, 2011  [On more robust theoretical foundations for legal philosophy](/blog1/2011/8/30/on-more-robust-theoretical-foundations-for-legal-philosophy.html) Aug 30, 2011 
  * [ August 2010 ](/blog1?month=08-2010)
    * Aug 5, 2010  [My top six picks out of the 26 books I read in Jan–Jun 2010](/blog1/2010/8/5/my-top-six-picks-out-of-the-26-books-i-read-in-janjun-2010.html) Aug 5, 2010 
  * [ January 2010 ](/blog1?month=01-2010)
    * Jan 3, 2010  [REVIEW | Avatar: Storyworld creation, justice and environmentalism on Pandora and Earth](/blog1/2010/1/3/review-avatar-storyworld-creation-justice-and-environmentali.html) Jan 3, 2010 
    * Jan 2, 2010  [2009 H2 reading and audiobook results](/blog1/2010/1/2/2009-h2-reading-and-audiobook-results.html) Jan 2, 2010 
  * [ December 2009 ](/blog1?month=12-2009)
    * Dec 2, 2009  [REVIEW | The Gods Themselves and climate-science Orwellianism: Is optimism still possible?](/blog1/2009/12/2/review-the-gods-themselves-and-climate-science-orwellianism.html) Dec 2, 2009 
  * [ September 2009 ](/blog1?month=09-2009)
    * Sep 21, 2009  [Getting to the Core of the Energy Debate](/blog1/2009/9/21/getting-to-the-core-of-the-energy-debate.html) Sep 21, 2009 
  * [ July 2009 ](/blog1?month=07-2009)
    * Jul 9, 2009  [2009 H1 results](/blog1/2009/7/9/2009-h1-results.html) Jul 9, 2009 
    * Jul 3, 2009  [REVIEW | The Ethics of Money Production by Jörg Guido Hülsmann](/blog1/2009/7/3/review-the-ethics-of-money-production-by-jorg-guido-hulsmann.html) Jul 3, 2009 
  * [ February 2009 ](/blog1?month=02-2009)
    * Feb 20, 2009  [Vaclav Klaus hits the right notes before the European Parliament](/blog1/2009/2/20/vaclav-klaus-hits-the-right-notes-before-the-european-parlia.html) Feb 20, 2009 
    * Feb 17, 2009  [The miles per gallon illusion](/blog1/2009/2/17/the-miles-per-gallon-illusion.html) Feb 17, 2009 
    * Feb 17, 2009  ["Enemies of liberty" more accurately located](/blog1/2009/2/17/enemies-of-liberty-more-accurately-located.html) Feb 17, 2009 
    * Feb 4, 2009  [IN-DEPTH | President Obama's inaugural address—analysis and commentary](/blog1/2009/2/4/in-depth-president-obamas-inaugural-addressanalysis-and-comm.html) Feb 4, 2009 
  * [ January 2009 ](/blog1?month=01-2009)
    * Jan 20, 2009  [Open letter to Bloomberg reporters on "economists of all stripes" claim](/blog1/2009/1/20/open-letter-to-bloomberg-reporters-on-economists-of-all-stri.html) Jan 20, 2009 
    * Jan 6, 2009  [Journalism values dead in US MSM, judging from its coverage of Gaza](/blog1/2009/1/6/journalism-values-dead-in-us-msm-judging-from-its-coverage-o.html) Jan 6, 2009 
  * [ December 2008 ](/blog1?month=12-2008)
    * Dec 31, 2008  [My year by the numbers](/blog1/2008/12/31/my-year-by-the-numbers.html) Dec 31, 2008 
    * Dec 15, 2008  [What can one person do?](/blog1/2008/12/15/what-can-one-person-do.html) Dec 15, 2008 
  * [ November 2008 ](/blog1?month=11-2008)
    * Nov 26, 2008  [Washington State Constitution: Article I, Section 1](/blog1/2008/11/26/washington-state-constitution-article-i-section-1.html) Nov 26, 2008 
    * Nov 20, 2008  [A formula to help with the "Inevitable Question"](/blog1/2008/11/20/a-formula-to-help-with-the-inevitable-question.html) Nov 20, 2008 
    * Nov 20, 2008  [The perfect crime is the one not detected](/blog1/2008/11/20/the-perfect-crime-is-the-one-not-detected.html) Nov 20, 2008 
    * Nov 5, 2008  [1% for Obama; 100% for Brother](/blog1/2008/11/5/1-for-obama-100-for-brother.html) Nov 5, 2008 
  * [ October 2008 ](/blog1?month=10-2008)
    * Oct 31, 2008  ["Successes" of intervention; the emotional challenge of looking at the truth](/blog1/2008/10/31/successes-of-intervention-the-emotional-challenge-of-looking.html) Oct 31, 2008 
  * [ August 2008 ](/blog1?month=08-2008)
    * Aug 26, 2008  [REVIEW | Law and Revolution II: Religion, law, and economic transformation](/blog1/2008/8/26/review-law-and-revolution-ii-religion-law-and-economic-trans.html) Aug 26, 2008 
  * [ July 2008 ](/blog1?month=07-2008)
    * Jul 4, 2008  [Who needs war and crime?](/blog1/2008/7/4/who-needs-war-and-crime.html) Jul 4, 2008 
  * [ June 2008 ](/blog1?month=06-2008)
    * Jun 24, 2008  [REVIEW | Unstoppable Global Warming by Fred Singer and Dennis Avery](/blog1/2008/6/24/review-unstoppable-global-warming-by-fred-singer-and-dennis.html) Jun 24, 2008 
    * Jun 17, 2008  [Prices should be falling](/blog1/2008/6/17/prices-should-be-falling.html) Jun 17, 2008 
  * [ April 2008 ](/blog1?month=04-2008)
    * Apr 24, 2008  [The gutting of economics as an anti-state force by fear of offending the powers](/blog1/2008/4/24/the-gutting-of-economics-as-an-anti-state-force-by-fear-of-o.html) Apr 24, 2008 
    * Apr 10, 2008  [The intellectual disease, and part of the inoculation](/blog1/2008/4/10/the-intellectual-disease-and-part-of-the-inoculation.html) Apr 10, 2008 
  * [ February 2008 ](/blog1?month=02-2008)
    * Feb 14, 2008  [Avoid and scurry: FactChecker's Ron Paul smear distracts from the real issues](/blog1/2008/2/14/avoid-and-scurry-factcheckers-ron-paul-smear-distracts-from.html) Feb 14, 2008 

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf) [
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A) [
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf)[
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A)[
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

