[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/25f7837e92c5&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderUser&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![The
LAO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/2*X_8LYIcePYE1DMhi8vcHFw.png)](/@thelaoofficial?source=post_page
-----25f7837e92c5--------------------------------)

[The LAO](/@thelaoofficial?source=post_page-----
25f7837e92c5--------------------------------)

Follow

Apr 7, 2020

·

4 min read

#  **Building a Permissionless Silicon Valley: The LAO Launches on April 28**

 _Ethereum will rebuild the entire commercial world, including Silicon Valley.
A first step in that direction is for-profit DAOs. On April 28, 2020, members
will be able to join and contribute to The LAO. The future of finance is
taking a step forward._

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1052/0*0RxGwub3VmjrYyEV)

The ICO and token boom of 2016–2018 demonstrated the power of Ethereum to
collect assets to fund innovation. It pointed towards a future of a
permissionless, global Silicon Valley.

[The LAO](http://thelao.io) is the next step towards this evolution. In 2008,
the world experienced, first hand, the vulnerability of our financial systems.
For years, prior to the crisis, cryptographers and technologists dreamed of
creating a digital asset with a luster too bright to dull. After the financial
crisis of 2008, the dream became a reality, with Bitcoin fomenting from an
overlooked corner of the Internet in response to the utter failure of
governments to rectify widespread fraud and financial wrongs.

Ethereum has sought to evolve Bitcoin by unleashing on the world a generalized
blockchain to create, manage, and program digital assets. The potential use
cases for blockchain technology has dramatically expanded in the intervening
years, with hundreds of thousands of developers, large enterprises, and even
governments turning to the technology to build the next generation of finance
and possibly the entire Internet.

One of the core use cases of Ethereum is and always will be capital formation.
The ability to generate and settle the transfer of any asset in a matter of
seconds may prove to be one of the fundamental technical advancements of our
age. Just like how the Internet entirely changed the way information spread
across the globe, Ethereum will change how assets are created, transferred,
and deployed. And, just like how one of the hallmarks of the Internet has been
e-commerce, one of the hallmarks of Ethereum will be pooling and deploying
capital.

The need for these capabilities is only magnified in these uncertain times.
We’re seeing now, in light of the COVID-19 pandemic that 2008 was just a
fissure in the crack that is the global financial system. The market response
to the pandemic, along with the Federal Reserve attempting to throw a lifeboat
of several trillions of dollars only highlights how flawed our current system
is. Due to a shock to the economic system, incredible new startups are left
with slashed company valuations, little runway and no foreseeable way to raise
venture capital financing.

In order to change this system, we need to first change the fundamentals: how
capital is pooled and how projects are funded. Industrialization brought us
the corporation and joint-stock companies. Web3 will be anchored by millions
of DAOs, pooling capital and allocating it like water.

[The LAO](https://www.thelao.io/) is the next great experiment in this
endeavor. The LAO is resurrecting [The
DAO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_DAO_\(organization\)) in a way that
aims to comply with US law, building a democratically managed decentralized
organization that can invest in blockchain-based projects in a snap, through
the [LAO’s dapp](/@thelaoofficial/the-lao-an-early-sneak-peek-a0c9be66a3ae)
and extensions to [MolochDAO’s smart contract
code](https://github.com/MolochVentures/moloch/blob/master/README.md).

##  **The LAO Launch Date**

On April 28th, The LAO will be open for investors to purchase an interest in
The LAO and join as voting members. Prospective members of The LAO will have
to be accredited investors based on U.S. securities laws (although we may open
up contribution to foreign members under Regulation S). If you’re interested
in becoming a member of The LAO, you can pre-register
[here](https://www.thelao.io/verify). Once completed, you’ll be a leg up in
securing your spot, by verifying that you are an [accredited
investor](https://www.sec.gov/fast-answers/answers-accredhtm.html), when
membership opens up on April 28th.

Membership in The LAO will be provided on a first-come-first-serve basis. Each
member can purchase 1% blocks of LAO Tokens for 120 ether (and can purchase up
to 9%) through a public sale. All relevant legal documents including
subscription agreements will be generated for parties to easily come to
agreement on relevant market terms.

##  **For Prospective LAO-funded Projects**

Any Ethereum-based project can submit an application to pitch their company to
The LAO members prior to the date of launch. If a LAO member is interested in
your project, he or she can put the project up for consideration by all of The
LAO members. If approved by a majority vote, the sponsored project will be
notified and become a LAO company that will receive funding in the form of a
convertible note or a seed-stage type of investment. This process will begin
once The LAO membership has been filled. Seed stage investments in exchange
for equity or project token rights may require additional information such as
valuation information for LAO members to consider when deciding to invest in
your project.

The LAO and other for-profit DAOs are important for the development of the
Ethereum ecosystem. We will not be able to rebuild the commercial world
without the ability to pool and direct capital efficiently.

##  **Learn More**

If you would like more information about becoming a LAO member or project,
please reach out to us at [hello@thelao.io](http://hello@thelao.io).

For further information, check out our [docs](https://docs.thelao.io/), which
cover questions about The LAO’s structure and operation, or hit us up via
[email](http://hello@thelao.io/) or
[telegram.](https://t.me/joinchat/FLvdBBVz3o9pfi-rfd9BqQ)

\--

\--

\--

## [More from The LAO](/@thelaoofficial?source=post_page-----
25f7837e92c5--------------------------------)

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F71c8a361b148&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40thelaoofficial%2Fbuilding-
a-permissionless-silicon-valley-the-lao-launches-on-
april-28-25f7837e92c5&newsletterV3=61217eadf32d&newsletterV3Id=71c8a361b148&user=The+LAO&userId=61217eadf32d&source=-----25f7837e92c5
---------------------subscribe_user-----------)

A For-Profit, Limited Liability Autonomous Organization, powered by
@OpenLawOfficial.

Love podcasts or audiobooks? Learn on the go with our new app.

[Try
Knowable](https://knowable.fyi/?utm_source=medium&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=medium-
post-footer&source=post_page-----25f7837e92c5--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Bruce
Kleinman](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*KVptPidyJDdm2Q96W8PqXA.png)](/@brucekleinman?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Bruce Kleinman

](/@brucekleinman?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## We interrupt this thread to bring you …

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*UkmzBYLPEJoURHihmmMbKQ.jpeg)](/@brucekleinman/we-
interrupt-this-thread-to-bring-you-e3a7c0deedb2?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[[![Gulliver](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*bQ9jK-
brCrIDk1aXvc5v6g.png)](/@gulliverchat?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[Gulliver

](/@gulliverchat?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Meet Gulliver

](/@gulliverchat/meet-gulliver-d5f2d9b261b0?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[[![Elena](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*JAgNMLuU5DkrPTvht9kQ2A.jpeg)](/@elenapixee?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Elena

](/@elenapixee?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[StormGain_crypto

](https://medium.com/stormgain-crypto?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## 6 classic mistakes first time traders make at least once in their life

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*JU65UH7lWmbQSXLv93geAw.jpeg)](/stormgain-
crypto/6-classic-mistakes-first-time-traders-make-at-least-once-in-their-
life-5cdf66751a11?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![XT.com](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*-b2UqXn8fCFR6pK8NOxNWg.jpeg)](/@XT_com?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[XT.com

](/@XT_com?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

## XT Will Hold BSST Trading Competition

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*VeVs1qR6Dy3KOeGPPBHAMQ.png)](/@XT_com/xt-
will-hold-bsst-trading-competition-6d5d5334e5ee?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[[![XT.com](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*-b2UqXn8fCFR6pK8NOxNWg.jpeg)](/@XT_com?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[XT.com

](/@XT_com?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

in

[XT.com

](https://medium.com/xt-com?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## [XT] Daily Blockchain Newsfeed, Wednesday, October 28th

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*2JzoXZvxjhwH1J59PuCKiw.png)](/xt-
com/xt-daily-blockchain-newsfeed-wednesday-
october-28th-e4a014393285?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![PowerKee](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*K8pSUPxpidThGIMrmbV9Iw.jpeg)](/@powerkee?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[PowerKee

](/@powerkee?source=post_internal_links---------5----------------------------)

## Can Privacy Coins Survive Regulatory Scrutiny?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*H_SkeajhKFP4eRdx2TtLoA.jpeg)](/@powerkee/can-
privacy-coins-survive-regulatory-
scrutiny-12d817018a7a?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Blockonomist
Staff](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*kSYEnOr1yWmwSqj8_KVlMA.png)](/@blockonomist?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Blockonomist Staff

](/@blockonomist?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[Blockonomist

](https://medium.com/blockonomist?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Originex Is on Its Way to Enhancing Its Activity.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*UC_5dKLjB0ifl02b0McxHA.png)](/blockonomist/originex-
is-on-its-way-to-enhancing-its-
activity-771a2f931f2f?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![CBX
Team](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*iLbM2GEhSmoGimfDG2m11A.png)](/@cbxone?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[CBX Team

](/@cbxone?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

in

[CBX.one

](https://medium.com/cbx-digital-asset-trading-
platform?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

## Bitcoin’s Intrinsic Value

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*DS2heb_e41Q7D5OexbtU-A.png)](/cbx-
digital-asset-trading-platform/bitcoins-intrinsic-
value-734016f0a292?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----25f7837e92c5--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
25f7837e92c5--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
25f7837e92c5--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
25f7837e92c5--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
25f7837e92c5--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----25f7837e92c5--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----25f7837e92c5--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40thelaoofficial%2Fbuilding-
a-permissionless-silicon-valley-the-lao-launches-on-
april-28-25f7837e92c5&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![The
LAO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/2*X_8LYIcePYE1DMhi8vcHFw.png)](/@thelaoofficial)

[

## The LAO

](/@thelaoofficial)

608 Followers

A For-Profit, Limited Liability Autonomous Organization, powered by
@OpenLawOfficial.

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F71c8a361b148&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40thelaoofficial%2Fbuilding-
a-permissionless-silicon-valley-the-lao-launches-on-
april-28-25f7837e92c5&newsletterV3=61217eadf32d&newsletterV3Id=71c8a361b148&user=The+LAO&userId=61217eadf32d&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![David Bradley-
Ward](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*feytFpI7Irelxo5y-Ct-
HA.jpeg)](/@asmxpro?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
a76f22c3_9f4f_4a0b_b6b8_3821e22c389c-------)

[David Bradley-Ward

](/@asmxpro?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
a76f22c3_9f4f_4a0b_b6b8_3821e22c389c-------)

in

[ASMX

](https://medium.com/asmx?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------a76f22c3_9f4f_4a0b_b6b8_3821e22c389c-------)

## How big is the Security Token Market and does it matter?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*Gd_D--
NNpK5CZi3N)](/asmx/how-big-is-the-security-token-market-and-does-it-
matter-265ace2a29a7?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
a76f22c3_9f4f_4a0b_b6b8_3821e22c389c-------)

[[![CommonSense
Finance](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*c94Hkj3cGd8e6PTmXgWp0Q.png)](/@commonsense-
finance?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
a76f22c3_9f4f_4a0b_b6b8_3821e22c389c-------)

[CommonSense Finance

](/@commonsense-finance?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
a76f22c3_9f4f_4a0b_b6b8_3821e22c389c-------)

## We are ready to bring decentralised finance (DeFi) to traditional
investors.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*7s-mXQln0leCjIDMN4UKOw.jpeg)](/@commonsense-
finance/we-are-ready-to-bring-decentralised-finance-defi-to-traditional-
investors-895f7b204fdb?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
a76f22c3_9f4f_4a0b_b6b8_3821e22c389c-------)

[[![ChainWise](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*-iBZ81-ERakQTjDnYuZrYg.jpeg)](/@chainwise?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------a76f22c3_9f4f_4a0b_b6b8_3821e22c389c-------)

[ChainWise

](/@chainwise?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
a76f22c3_9f4f_4a0b_b6b8_3821e22c389c-------)

## Ethereum the merger is approaching

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*NA9bn3MKI0PAWqeYZhHmJg.png)](/@chainwise/ethereum-
the-merger-is-approaching-ba7735fa5812?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------a76f22c3_9f4f_4a0b_b6b8_3821e22c389c-------)

[[![21e6 Capital
AG](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*0S46LSTum7eDHKKzVwcsxw.png)](/@21e6?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------a76f22c3_9f4f_4a0b_b6b8_3821e22c389c-------)

[21e6 Capital AG

](/@21e6?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
a76f22c3_9f4f_4a0b_b6b8_3821e22c389c-------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------a76f22c3_9f4f_4a0b_b6b8_3821e22c389c-------)

## A Fundamental Analysis of Crypto Markets in Early 2022: China Soon To Stop
Selling Bitcoin?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*ME9a2lAJflW9jUhF)](/coinmonks/a-fundamental-
analysis-of-crypto-markets-in-early-2022-china-soon-to-stop-selling-
bitcoin-e50dd62f464c?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
a76f22c3_9f4f_4a0b_b6b8_3821e22c389c-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

