![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/can-you-protect-your-privacy-by-using-a-vpn-to-access-tiktok-or-wechat/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/can-you-protect-your-privacy-by-using-a-vpn-to-access-tiktok-or-wechat/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/can-you-protect-your-privacy-by-using-a-vpn-to-access-tiktok-or-wechat/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/can-you-protect-your-privacy-by-using-a-vpn-to-access-tiktok-or-wechat/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/can-you-protect-your-privacy-by-using-a-vpn-to-access-tiktok-or-wechat/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/can-you-protect-your-privacy-by-using-a-vpn-to-access-tiktok-or-wechat/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Can you protect your privacy by using a VPN to access TikTok or
WeChat?](/static/7ea887804bc94bc080d9460e05277502/Orchid_BlogImage_TikTokWeChat.jpg)

# Can you protect your privacy by using a VPN to access TikTok or WeChat?

Oct 6, 2020  
  

TikTok, which lets people create and share short videos, is one of the most
popular social media apps in the world. In less than four years, it has
rocketed to prominence, and is now [one of the most downloaded apps in the
world](https://www.digitalinformationworld.com/2020/05/the-top-10-most-
downloaded-apps-worldwide-in-the-past-month-includes-some-unusual-
entries.html#:~:text=After%20ZOOM%20and%20TikTok%2C%20the,%2C%20Google%20Meet%2C%20and%20Netflix.).
Uniquely, TikTok, with its origins in China, has managed to conquer the United
States market, where it counts [100 million active
users](https://www.searchenginejournal.com/tiktok-shares-total-number-of-us-
users-for-the-first-
time/378844/#:~:text=100%20Million%20Active%20Users,grown%20800%25%20since%20January%202018.).

Another hugely successful Chinese app, WeChat, lets people do
[everything](https://qpsoftware.net/blog/all-wechat-features-2020) from chat
to online purchases. And while it is most popular in the domestic Chinese
market -- where nearly a billion people use it regularly -- it is also a key
tool for cross-border business and a tool for overseas Chinese to stay in
touch with friends and family back home.

Now, the U.S. administration is seeking to bar both apps, citing concerns
around data privacy and possible overseas surveillance. While the government's
orders have been temporarily halted in the courts, uncertainty looms over the
future of the two Chinese unicorns. Because of this, some people in the U.S.
have begun looking to a solution usually associated with countries that censor
the Internet. They are turning to VPNs to circumvent the potential U.S.
regulations and use TikTok and WeChat, even if it goes against their
government's wishes.

Freedom and privacy are common rationales for this end-run around government
intervention. At first blush, invoking such principles makes sense. After all,
why should someone be prevented from having harmless fun on TikTok, or
chatting with their overseas friends and relatives on WeChat, because of a
geopolitical feud? Isn't using a VPN the right thing to do, given what we know
about the widespread government surveillance of Internet users? Isn't
accessing these services through a VPN striking a blow for freedom, openness,
and cooperation?

Each individual Internet user can make their own decision about these
questions. But it's important to understand exactly what you're doing when you
access TikTok or WeChat through a VPN. [Government surveillance is certainly
real](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_government_mass_surveillance_projects),
and great power rivalry has a long history of ensnaring people's ordinary,
day-to-day activities. But the apps in question -- like so many digital
behemoths around the world -- imperil privacy themselves through their data
collection practices. And simply using a VPN won't keep you safe.

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

**What TikTok and WeChat know about you**

TikTok collects an enormous amount of information about its users, beyond that
required to operate the service. It automatically logs your location, your IP
address, and the type of device used to access the app, as well as browsing
and search history and the content of messages exchanged on the platform. In
addition, the app asks users for "opt-in" permission to collect additional
information. This additional tracking includes your age, phone number,
contacts, and payment information. Finally, TikTok uses powerful algorithms --
so powerful they have [been the subject of tense international
negotiations](https://www.wsj.com/articles/tiktok-deal-talks-are-snarled-over-
fate-of-apps-algorithms-11598995674) \-- to tailor content and search results
based on its users' habits and histories. The app uses the vast amounts of
data it collects to curate the feeds it generates.

While WeChat is in many ways quite different from TikTok, it too is a large-
scale harvester of data. While the app's privacy practices are opaque, it's
generally understood that -- like most apps -- it collects information about
its users' locations, operating systems, and devices. In addition, because it
is a messaging app, it is able to access people's contacts as well as the
contents of their messages. Finally, WeChat is a payments platform, used in
China the same way Apple Pay is in the U.S. As such, it has access to the
financial information of anyone who uses it to make purchases.

**What a VPN does, and doesn't, protect us from**

Does using a VPN offer protection from TikTok and WeChat's mass data
collection? The answer is, unfortunately, probably not.

VPNs can go a long way toward protecting online privacy if we're using a
browser to access the Internet. For this reason, anyone seeking to maintain
privacy while using a social network -- whether it's TikTok, Facebook, or
something else -- should access them through a browser using a VPN. When we do
this, our traffic is routed through an encrypted server, making it difficult
for third parties -- including the social networks we use -- to see who we are
or what we're doing.

To maintain privacy when using an app like TikTok or WeChat, avoid downloading
and using these networks' proprietary apps, which can collect information
regardless of whether you use a VPN. For stronger privacy, [configure multiple
hops](/what-is-a-hop/) on Orchid to make it more difficult for anyone to piece
together your online activity.

There is, then, a way to use social media with a VPN and maintain a high
degree of privacy. But the truth is most people access platforms like TikTok
and WeChat through their apps, not through browsers. And in this situation, a
VPN won't help. Those thinking about using a VPN to skirt a potential U.S. ban
of TikTok and WeChat may find they are able to access those services -- but
their privacy will still be at risk. Of course, the decision lies with each
individual, and some may decide that the entertainment value or the social
necessity outweighs the danger. But no one should be under the illusion that
using a VPN to access the TikTok app is striking a blow for freedom and
privacy.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [VPN](/tag/vpn/)
  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Can%20you%20protect%20your%20privacy%20by%20using%20a%20VPN%20to%20access%20TikTok%20or%20WeChat%3F%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fcan-
you-protect-your-privacy-by-using-a-vpn-to-access-tiktok-or-wechat%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fcan-
you-protect-your-privacy-by-using-a-vpn-to-access-tiktok-or-wechat%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fcan-
you-protect-your-privacy-by-using-a-vpn-to-access-tiktok-or-wechat%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/what-does-a-vpn-hide/)

#### What does a VPN hide?

](/what-does-a-vpn-hide/)

Apr 15, 2021

](/what-is-split-tunneling/)

[

#### What is split tunneling?

](/what-is-split-tunneling/)

May 3, 2021

](/why-ordinary-people-are-turning-to-vpns/)

[

#### Why Ordinary People Are Turning to VPNs

](/why-ordinary-people-are-turning-to-vpns/)

Jul 14, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

