![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/can-technology-be-compassionate-developer-val-mack-explains-how/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/can-technology-be-compassionate-developer-val-mack-explains-how/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/can-technology-be-compassionate-developer-val-mack-explains-how/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/can-technology-be-compassionate-developer-val-mack-explains-how/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/can-technology-be-compassionate-developer-val-mack-explains-how/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/can-technology-be-compassionate-developer-val-mack-explains-how/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Can Technology Be Compassionate? Developer Val Mack Explains
How](/static/745dc991fdc0a53c0467e1c7042047d3/Orchid_BlogImage_VMack.jpg)

# Can Technology Be Compassionate? Developer Val Mack Explains How

Sep 22, 2020  
  

![](/img/podcast-bunny.svg)

 **Follow the White Rabbit podcast**[Start
Listening](https://www.orchid.com/podcast/episode-15-val-mack)

Val Mack, a Software Architect at Quant Five, and founder of Festival Labs,
believes cryptography and blockchain have the power to do social good by
protecting privacy and allowing autonomy in what she calls "compassionate
technology."

"That term that I am using is very ambiguous -- intentionally so -- because
it's a kind of umbrella term for working for social good, autonomy, anything
that is seeking to put more compassion in the world," Val said on the latest
episode of the [Follow the White Rabbit](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
podcast.

Before joining developer firm Quant Five based in Berkeley, California, Val
developed software for ConsenSys projects, BRD wallets and for a Coinbase
spinoff. Val is also a mentor at the Berkeley Blockchain Xcelerator and an
organizer of blockchain groups such as Women Who Code and SF CryptoCurrency
Developers.

Val's early experience in the blockchain and crypto space brought her into
contact with the ICO frenzy where she said she would bump into people at
meetups and hear: "We raised $40 million yesterday and we don't know what to
do with it."

But, as Val explained, there was also a mainstay community of people who
wanted to harness the technology for the greater good -- something that was
barely appreciated outside the blockchain space.

> "There are people inside that community who really want to make a
> difference, really want to put a dent in the universe, so to speak, to do so
> much more good for the world than just doing an ICO or trading tokens," she
> said.

That's how Val gravitated to like-minded entrepreneurs and developers and
ended up founding Festival Labs to keep these people connected and start to
create a hub for compassionate technology.

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

"Cryptography is one of those things, interestingly, that has a lot of power
(to create compassionate technology) and is undervalued by most of society
because it is really hard to understand. It's super complicated and also
complicated to communicate," she said.

> "So the effort behind Festival Labs is, first, to lay the foundation for
> this community, and, next, to start building things that can go to mass
> market so that we can give these powerful tools to a widespread audience."

Val cited different ideas for compassionate technology that emerged from a
hackathon co-sponsored by Orchid, ranging from certifying sustainably-produced
honey to providing a virtual reality persona based on statistics that could
show how people would live divergent experiences with, for example a 10
percent salary increase.

To hear more from Val, follow us down the rabbit hole: [listen to the
conversation here](https://www.orchid.com/podcast) or on your favorite
streaming service.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)
  * [Decentralization](/tag/decentralization/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Can%20Technology%20Be%20Compassionate%3F%20Developer%20Val%20Mack%20Explains%20How%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fcan-
technology-be-compassionate-developer-val-mack-explains-how%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fcan-
technology-be-compassionate-developer-val-mack-explains-how%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fcan-
technology-be-compassionate-developer-val-mack-explains-how%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/meet-orchid-virtually-at-ethdenver-2021/)

#### Meet Orchid (virtually) at ETHDenver 2021

](/meet-orchid-virtually-at-ethdenver-2021/)

Feb 4, 2021

](/joe-toscano-on-fighting-big-tech-bias-with-data-science/)

[

#### Joe Toscano on Fighting Big Tech Bias With Data Science

](/joe-toscano-on-fighting-big-tech-bias-with-data-science/)

Feb 8, 2021

](/should-you-leave-your-vpn-on-all-the-time/)

[

#### Should you leave your VPN on all the time?

](/should-you-leave-your-vpn-on-all-the-time/)

Feb 10, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

