![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/can-you-still-be-tracked-using-a-vpn/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/can-you-still-be-tracked-using-a-vpn/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/can-you-still-be-tracked-using-a-vpn/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/can-you-still-be-tracked-using-a-vpn/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/can-you-still-be-tracked-using-a-vpn/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/can-you-still-be-tracked-using-a-vpn/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Can you be tracked using a
VPN?](/static/f80e085e66dcb0dddabc243ff480acea/Orchid_BlogImage_VPNTrack.jpg)

# Can you be tracked using a VPN?

Apr 29, 2020  
  

The sudden shift to remote work driven by the global coronavirus pandemic has
pushed online privacy to the forefront of public debate. People are
increasingly aware of the privacy risks of online life. The video conferencing
service Zoom is a prime example; the app saw downloads soar, only to become
the subject of withering criticism for
[failures](https://www.npr.org/2020/04/03/826129520/a-must-for-millions-zoom-
has-a-dark-side-and-an-fbi-warning) to protect people's privacy. But the
problem is deeper and has been going on longer than many people may realize.
The core of the problem is that online servers collect enormous amounts of
data on users, even creating "browser fingerprints" that can identify an
individual by their web history, which is as unique as a physical thumbprint.

In response, growing numbers of people have begun to seek new ways to protect
their privacy while using the Internet. In response, some are seeking to
protect themselves online with virtual private networks, or VPNs -- privacy
solutions that route traffic through their own servers, making it harder for
third parties to see what users do online. VPNs have long been favored by
technologists and frequent business travelers, and they're poised to grow in
popularity as the world shifts to remote work.

Using a VPN is a good idea: there's no doubt that these services [offer
improved privacy](https://www.fastcompany.com/90282668/the-one-thing-you-
should-do-to-protect-your-privacy-in-2019) compared to browsing over a
standard wi-fi connection. But how much? Can users still be tracked, even when
using a privacy solution?

The short answer is yes: even with a VPN, you can be tracked. Being "logged"
-- the term for tracking of VPN users -- is not the same thing as being
monitored by ordinary ISPs, apps or websites. Most web browsers default to
logging. When you use a VPN this is not the case; while user data is visible
to the privacy provider, it is not sprinkled across the entire Internet the
way it is when someone browses unprotected. Nevertheless, the fact remains
that the person's online activity is still visible somewhere.

While most leading VPNs have stated commitments not to log, the fact is that
they can if they want to. It's likely that many VPN services do, in fact,
[keep logs](https://hackernoon.com/what-vpn-services-arent-telling-you-about-
data-logging-4ce15e4c90f0) of their users' activities. Even those who try to
honor their commitments to user privacy can be compelled in certain situations
-- e.g., by legal authorities -- to turn over their records. This is where
Orchid's novel approach to logging comes into play.

**Orchid's novel solution to logging**

Privacy is the reason Orchid was built. Our mission is to restore the Internet
as a place people can explore freely. Orchid does this by aggregating the
capabilities of bandwidth providers within an innovative two-sided marketplace
built on the Ethereum blockchain. Orchid offers a number of innovations
designed to improve privacy, including [probabilistic
nanopayments](https://medium.com/orchid-labs/probabilistic-
nanopayments-4aa423c3f22f) and [multi-hop configurability](/what-is-a-hop/).
Orchid lets people access the services of top VPNs including
[LiquidVPN](/orchid-partners-with-liquidvpn/), [PIA](/pia-bringing-trusted-
private-bandwidth-to-orchid-users/), [Tenta](https://tenta.com/),
[Boleh](https://www.bolehvpn.net/), and [VPNSecure](/orchid-partners-with-
vpnsecure/), combining these services with Orchid's unique technology to
maximize anonymity while maintaining a robust marketplace that always has
ample supply.

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

**So how does Orchid approach the issue of logging?**

The network is designed in a decentralized way that stops anyone -- including
Orchid itself -- from easily targeting an individual in order to grab their
information. This means we have no direct metrics around who is using the
product, which most technology platforms would see as a major disadvantage.
But our commitment to user privacy requires this. And it means users don't
have to put their trust in Orchid -- we can't monitor you even if we want to.

But what about the VPNs that provide bandwidth on Orchid? Here too we take a
unique approach. Rather than try to stop logging, or simply promise not to
log, Orchid gives its users the power to make logging almost irrelevant. With
multiple hops, encrypted user data can move between multiple VPN servers
before it reaches its destination. In this scenario, providers can log all
they want -- the only records they have will be of meaningless segments of
uninterpretable encrypted data. Users' web traffic is, effectively, hidden in
plain sight.

As long as logging is legal, people are likely to do it -- the incentives to
collect users' data are too strong. So Orchid takes its different approach to
the problem. Multiple hops and nanopayments make it possible, for the first
time, to configure a privacy solution in such a way that it doesn't matter if
a user is being logged, because the data can be effectively obfuscated. This
is one of the ways Orchid is helping restore the Internet as a place where
people can stay curious and explore freely.

Orchid is available for download [here](https://www.orchid.com/download).

![QR Code](/img/uploads/qr_code-can-you-still-be-tracked.png)

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [VPN](/tag/vpn/)
  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Can%20you%20be%20tracked%20using%20a%20VPN%3F%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fcan-
you-still-be-tracked-using-a-vpn%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fcan-
you-still-be-tracked-using-a-vpn%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fcan-
you-still-be-tracked-using-a-vpn%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/what-does-a-vpn-hide/)

#### What does a VPN hide?

](/what-does-a-vpn-hide/)

Apr 15, 2021

](/what-is-split-tunneling/)

[

#### What is split tunneling?

](/what-is-split-tunneling/)

May 3, 2021

](/why-ordinary-people-are-turning-to-vpns/)

[

#### Why Ordinary People Are Turning to VPNs

](/why-ordinary-people-are-turning-to-vpns/)

Jul 14, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

