[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![Celebrating World Press Freedom Day
2020](/static/d8de6729d27405d3581f4b0a2424dadb/2a43b/header.jpg)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

## Celebrating World Press Freedom Day 2020

By [Joshua Long](/blog/author/joshua-long/)

·

April 30, 2020

Four years on from our initial AKASHA unveiling, we revisit where we’ve been
and where we are currently headed in order to look at how AKASHA has
celebrated World Press Freedom Day through the years.

[ ![image one](/static/bd19d252f38ee11dab57651c3d28a01c/1c72d/image-one.jpg)
](/static/bd19d252f38ee11dab57651c3d28a01c/93719/image-one.jpg)

# AKASHA’s First World Press Freedom Day (2016)

> Humanity needs a better home of Mind

John Perry Barlow, [_A Declaration of the Independence of
Cyberspace_](https://www.eff.org/cyberspace-independence)

On May 3 2016, we celebrated World Press Freedom day by unveiling the AKASHA
project to the world at large, simultaneously opening signups for the alpha
dapp release. This release attracted significant attention; we surpassed 2,000
sign ups by the end of the month, with 7,000 by the end of 2016. Mihai
explained the impetus behind the creation of AKASHA in an article on the
AKASHA blog:

_Ever since I joined Vitalik in the Ethereum project as cofounder in late
2013, I’ve dreamed about the ways Ethereum could be used to solve some of the
biggest issues we face as a civilization_

_We are basically living in an information age plagued by arbitrary censorship
and digital amnesia, affecting every Internet user_

_More than a social media platform, we’re basically building the social fabric
for the nascent etherweb. We are about to create the missing puzzle piece that
will enable us to tackle two of the most important challenges we face today as
a modern information-based society: freedom of expression and creative
perpetuity._

Back then AKASHA was focused on the development of a blogging platform, with
other features pushed into the future. We looked to be an important gear in
the Web 3.0 vision, removing the need for centralized server infrastructure.

These ideas were further explored in [an article in The Merkle, dated 9th May
2016,](https://themerkle.com/akasha-is-a-censorship-resistant-blogging-
network/) and [an article by Bitcoin Magazine, dated 6th May
2016.](https://bitcoinmagazine.com/articles/akasha-project-unveils-
decentralized-social-media-network-based-on-ethereum-and-ipfs-1462551273) The
word was out, people were enthused, and we were BUIDLing.

[ ![image two](/static/fdc9d53ec23a35ca6e4a8d71184aee47/1c72d/image-two.jpg)
](/static/fdc9d53ec23a35ca6e4a8d71184aee47/fd5e4/image-two.jpg)

# AKASHA’s Second World Press Freedom Day (2017)

On May 3 2017, we looked back on the year that had passed in a blog article
called An Odyssey of Discovery; looking toward the future and recapping the
trials and tribulations of our December launch:

_Following your amazing warm welcome, we felt both energized and motivated to
give it our 110% and deliver something good as soon as possible. It was
becoming clear that we haven 't been crazy for spending the last several
months of our lives working on this....or that we weren't the only ones who
were crazy! :)_

_Fast forwarding a few months - on the evening between 22-23 Dec - we were
making the final preparations for the first public release. This is when we
stumbled upon a new bug while working on the first AKASHA guide/tutorial to
help people get started with our dapp. Oh snap._

_For a brief moment, the overall feeling went from excitement to sadness- as
we were beginning to doubt if we would get AKASHA into the hands of people
this year. But before the bitter feeling could even settle in, the team was
already back at their computers trying to figure out what went wrong._

_This started around 21:00 and lasted until close to 00:30 when we had finally
fixed things up. Around 03:20 we were ready with pretty much everything, and
then this message greeted us:_

[ ![mailchimp glory](/static/66e1c6aa19fba9d7da8ff6f87a647bcd/1c72d/mailchimp-
glory.jpg) ](/static/66e1c6aa19fba9d7da8ff6f87a647bcd/212bf/mailchimp-
glory.jpg)

The rest is history. After proving that the idea could work from a
technological standpoint, we looked to experimentation with cryptoeconomics,
reputation, and incentives.

_the intention is not to simply create "a token" to raise funds - but to
create a framework for multiple cryptoeconomic experiments. The main idea is
revolving around changing various incentive layer parameters and parallel
experimentation._

_You can imagine A/B testing on the cryptoeconomic layer; taking the most
interesting token proposals and learning how they impact the health of the
ecosystem and its behaviour. The most promising ideas will receive extra
attention and undergo intense breakathons in an attempt to expose any
weaknesses that might have escaped until this stage._

_Most of the experiments will fail and that 's okay, because we learn from the
process._

_Through these experiments we increase our chance of finding the "most amazing
token idea for social networks ever". Once that is uncovered, we have built in
the process the perfect environment where the idea can reach new levels of
insight - since it's not evolving in one mind; but in a sea of minds made up
virtually entirely of innovators._

Learning from experiments has been such a key part of AKASHA through the
years, something which is clear from the article's sign off:

_This is more than just witnessing history in the making. This is what
building the future feels like. How far can we take it? What 's the limit? Is
there really a limit in the first place? Let’s find out together!_

# AKASHA’s Third World Press Freedom Day (2018)

AKASHA’s 3rd World Press Freedom Day happened during EDCON (Community Ethereum
Development Conference) in Toronto, where we explored some of the ideas that
we had been looking into since An Odyssey of Discovery. The first piece of
non-AKASHA writing referenced in the presentation is [Charlie Magee’s _The Age
of Imagination: Coming Soon to a Civilization Near
You_](http://www.signaldesign.net/Age%20of%20Imagination.pdf), a short and
delightful read for anyone wanting to get an idea of our thinking at the time.

[ ![image three](/static/2877e5e445189b4f1fcebe70187f23db/1c72d/image-
three.jpg) ](/static/2877e5e445189b4f1fcebe70187f23db/cecd0/image-three.jpg)

# AKASHA’s Fourth World Press Freedom Day (2019)

On our 4th World Press Freedom Day we started off on our current through a
post entitled [_AKASHA Reloaded: Three Spins Around The Sun
Later_](https://akasha.org/blog/2019/05/03/akasha-reloaded). This new
trajectory involved building a framework, one where people and communities can
deploy their own customized, purpose-built, purposeful social networks
fulfilling whatever needs they have as a community.

[_Diving Into the Oceans of Time: Metamorphosis Part
II_](https://akasha.org/blog/2019/05/03/diving-into-the-oceans-of-time-
metamorphosis-part2/) was published alongside this, in which we explored
collective self-expression, highlighting the quantity of time that
collectively ends up sunk into Facebook:

_There are currently over 2.3 billion active monthly Facebook users From these
people, 1.56 billion are active daily. We use a conservative average of ~24
mins/day (based on these numbers for the US)._

_Now let 's calculate how much time Facebook consumes from all these people_
_24 minutes * 1,562,000,000 people = 37,488,000,000 total minutes._

_Since there are 1,440 minutes in a day, we will multiply this number by the
number of days in a common year calendar to find out the total number of
minutes in a year._

_37,488,000,000 total minutes / 525,600 minutes in a year = 71,324.2 total
years_

_Facebook consumes over 71,324 years from the lives of all these people._
_Every. Single. DAY._

Our new course was pretty clear, we sought to create this tool and put it out
there so that people and communities could maximize the beneficial aspects of
this sort of communication:

_New horizons for social media networks can be seen as ways to gain
empowerment and new avenues through which we can collaborate towards a more
equal society._

_Only that this time through technology designed to maximize collaboration
potential and collective intelligence, not advertising profit. Through
something that enhances our human condition rather than turning it against
us._

# AKASHA’s Fifth World Press Freedom Day (2020)

We've stretched this a bit in order to include our Devcon 5 announcement for
context.

In Osaka we added extra context and further explained the AKASHA Reloaded
phase by revealing that the flagship World to be built with the AKASHA World
Framework was to be [Ethereum World](https://ethereum.world/), a _new world of
social interaction_ that seeks to _unify the Ethereum ecosystem by integrating
decentralized apps into a simple, delightful social experience._

At the moment we are still hard at work trying to make this new world the best
it can be; if the video above has piqued your interest, our Dev Team have
written about
[authentication](https://akasha.org/blog/2020/02/28/authentication-on-ewa),
[our feature freeze](https://akasha.org/blog/2020/01/29/whats-going-into-ewa),
and given [a general overview of the AKASHA World
Framework](https://akasha.org/blog/2019/12/19/awf-a-dev-team-overview).

# AKASHA’s Next World Press Freedom Day? (2021)

By May 3rd 2021 Ethereum World will be up and running, the culmination of
years of experimentation, community engagement, and hard work. We move closer
and closer to fulfilling [the Ethereum World
Manifesto](https://ethereum.world/manifesto):

_We believe that Ethereum is a gift to humanity. A global public resource in
the form of a permissionless blockchain enabling programmable money,
executable smart contracts and decentralized applications without borders._

_We want to accelerate the adoption of Ethereum-based apps and services by
transforming how they attract, engage and delight users._

_Imagine a world in which Ethereum is simple to use, social in nature, and
global in adoption. Imagine the first billion people experiencing Ethereum as
borderless social interactions powered by permissionless innovation._

If this sounds like the kind of World you'd like to experience, or that you
have some suggestions for, you can [learn more and engage in the active
cocreation of it via the Ethereum World landing
page.](https://www.ethereum.world)

_Header image by[PIRO4D](https://pixabay.com/users/PIRO4D-2707530/) from
[Pixabay](https://pixabay.com/)._

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2020/04/30/world-
press-freedom-day-twenty-twenty)

