[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/1f81c58e0ba4&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Centre
blog](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*t6GLDn1glFoKf5YpMqQ1Rw.png)](https://medium.com/centre-
blog?source=post_page-----1f81c58e0ba4--------------------------------)

Published in

[Centre blog

](https://medium.com/centre-blog?source=post_page-----
1f81c58e0ba4--------------------------------)

[![Centre
Consortium](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*wRsCjP1Dhm66E3gQ0s-80w.png)](/@centre-
consortium?source=post_page-----1f81c58e0ba4--------------------------------)

[Centre Consortium](/@centre-consortium?source=post_page-----
1f81c58e0ba4--------------------------------)

Follow

Oct 15, 2020

·

4 min read

#  **Centre Consortium Announces Stellar as an Official Chain for USDC**

## Stellar developers and end-users can now benefit from the world’s leading
compliant and regulated digital dollar stablecoin

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*P0hm-Xj8Mck9EWMIZ8LroA.png)

 _SAN FRANCISCO, CA and BOSTON, MA — OCT 15, 2020_ **—** The Centre
Consortium, co-founded by Circle and Coinbase, announced that Stellar is now
an official blockchain for USD Coin (USDC). USDC is expected to be available
on Stellar in Q1 2021. Stellar’s established and proven blockchain will enable
the continued expansion and rapid growth of what is becoming the world’s
leading compliant and regulated digital dollar stablecoin.

This support for USDC on Stellar comes as both have reported steady and
significant growth. USDC has experienced more than 500 percent growth in the
past six months and has grown to over 2.8 billion USDC in circulation. The
Stellar network, which is used by financial institutions around the world to
provide borderless access to financial infrastructure, has over 4.6 million
accounts, an average ledger close time of 5 seconds, and has processed over 1
billion operations since its launch. The addition of USDC to Stellar is
expected to build on that growth as USDC carries the advantage of having deep
global liquidity across countries and platforms, __ which makes it an optimal
asset for use in cross-border transactions. Developers and end-users that are
a part of the Stellar network will be able to leverage USDC to make efficient
transactions on Stellar.

 **Denelle Dixon, CEO and Executive Director of the Stellar Development
Foundation said: “** We look forward to bringing such a reputable and engaged
USD asset to the Stellar network. At the Stellar Development Foundation, we
are focused on creating equitable access to the financial system by building a
global network that delivers services to users regardless of their geography.
The addition of USDC to Stellar will allow us to continue to expand our global
reach in pursuit of this mission while opening up new avenues for growth and
innovation for the developers and businesses building on the network.”

 **Alesia Haas, Chief Financial Officer at Coinbase, said:** “Today’s launch
represents another step towards increased flexibility for USDC to develop its
utility in global consumer payment applications **.** We look forward to
supporting USDC on Stellar for both our retail and institutional customers in
the future.”

 **Jeremy Allaire, Chairman and CEO of Circle, said:** “Stellar is a leader in
cross-border payments, and with the rapid global expansion USDC has been
experiencing, we are excited to launch USDC on Stellar. We value the increased
interoperability and wide range of developers that the Stellar network brings
to the table, and look forward to seeing how adding a strong and stable USD
anchor to Stellar grows its ecosystem and its importance as a platform driving
global financial inclusion.”

Stellar is the third blockchain with native support for USDC.

 **About Stellar**

Stellar is a decentralized, fast, scalable, and uniquely sustainable network
for financial products and services. It is both a cross-currency transaction
system and a platform for digital asset issuance, designed to connect the
world’s financial infrastructure. Dozens of financial institutions worldwide
issue assets and settle payments on the Stellar network, which has grown to
over 4 million accounts.

 **About the Stellar Development Foundation**

The Stellar Development Foundation (SDF) is a non-profit organization that
supports the development and growth of Stellar, an open-source network that
connects the world’s financial infrastructure. Founded in 2014, the Foundation
helps maintain Stellar’s codebase, supports the technical and business
communities building on the network, and serves as a voice to regulators and
institutions. The Foundation seeks to create equitable access to the global
financial system, using the Stellar network to unlock the world’s economic
potential through blockchain technology.

 **About Circle**

Circle is a global financial technology firm that enables businesses of all
sizes to harness the power of stablecoins and public blockchains for payments,
commerce and financial applications worldwide. Circle’s platform has supported
over 100 million transactions worth tens of billions of dollars, with nearly
10 million retail customers, over a thousand businesses, while storing and
securing more than $5 billion in digital currency assets. Circle is also a
principal developer of USD Coin (USDC), which together with Coinbase and the
Centre Consortium oversees the standards and protocol for what has become the
fastest growing, regulated, fully-reserved stablecoin. USDC now stands at a
$2.8 billion market cap and is adding nearly $200 million net new digital
dollars in circulation every week. Today, Circle’s transactional services,
business accounts, and platform APIs are giving rise to a new generation of
financial services and commerce applications that hold the promise of raising
global economic prosperity for all through programmable internet commerce.
Learn more at
[https://circle.com](https://c212.net/c/link/?t=0&l=en&o=2912193-1&h=3542236948&u=https%3A%2F%2Fcircle.com%2F&a=https%3A%2F%2Fcircle.com)

 **About Coinbase**

Coinbase is the easiest and most trusted place to buy, sell, and manage
cryptocurrencies, offering a suite of products for individual investors,
active traders, businesses and institutions. Founded in June of 2012, Coinbase
has built the world’s leading compliant crypto company, serving 35 million
accounts in more than 100 countries. Coinbase has raised more than $525M in
funding from leading investors such as Andreessen Horowitz, Tiger Global
Management, IVP, USV, DFJ and NYSE, and has grown to more than 1,000
employees. Headquartered in San Francisco, Coinbase also has offices in
Portland, New York, London, Dublin, and Tokyo.

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Centre blog](/centre-blog?source=post_page-----
1f81c58e0ba4--------------------------------)

An open source technology project designed to create a more inclusive global
economy, starting with USD Coin — the world’s second largest stablecoin
brought to you by Circle and Coinbase

[Read more from Centre blog](/centre-blog?source=post_page-----
1f81c58e0ba4--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![PolyYeld
Finance](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*vL-W4gQivQQ_OAiA_MqpTw.png)](/@polyyeldfinance?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[PolyYeld Finance

](/@polyyeldfinance?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## INTRODUCING: xYELD to PolyYelds ecosystem.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*GAwES5l68fT-
aWdOkf4cCw.png)](/@polyyeldfinance/introducing-xyeld-to-polyyelds-ecosystem-
fb0210eef1d4?source=post_internal_links---------0----------------------------)

[[![StealthEX.io](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*_xi1XO9befSne5l2f1z0ow.png)](/@stealthex-
io?source=post_internal_links---------1----------------------------)

[StealthEX.io

](/@stealthex-io?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## The Latest Telcoin Price Prediction 2025–2030

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*0IxofWoQ1k9cWfXp.png)](/@stealthex-
io/the-latest-telcoin-price-
prediction-2025-2030-b4ea9a9da4c9?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Bitget](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*T1_IdeVuiEx3jionDSvjAA.jpeg)](/@bitgetglobal?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Bitget

](/@bitgetglobal?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[BitgetGlobal

](https://medium.com/bitgetglobal?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Bitget Newly Listed Coin: YFII

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*AHJFEjwTgI1iDMVgUZ4TsQ.jpeg)](/bitgetglobal/bitget-
newly-listed-coin-yfii-fb566652d6bf?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Fiend
138](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*liRzc41fJW1lqARr6wfnJg.jpeg)](/@ericevans223?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Fiend 138

](/@ericevans223?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Interoperability and Cross-Chain Marketplaces

](/@ericevans223/interoperability-and-cross-chain-
marketplaces-2f13064af233?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Hedera
Team](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*GdOAIlvaI3A4BnRLFf4X8Q.png)](/@hedera?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Hedera Team

](/@hedera?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

in

[Hedera Blog

](https://medium.com/hedera?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Macro trends & opportunities of distributed ledger technologies (DLTs) with
special guest Ari Paul

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*0ZkASczeyUgPW21ZhPPS8A.jpeg)](/hedera/on-
april-10th-2019-ari-paul-was-appointed-as-an-advisor-for-hedera-
hashgraph-34449f3aa252?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Jun H.
Lee](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*pjr4pEL7Fw1uhvumYBwesA.png)](/@Bullish4Crypto?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Jun H. Lee

](/@Bullish4Crypto?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[FerrumNetwork

](https://medium.com/ferrumnetwork?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Announcing the Next Staking Project — Vodra + FRM Buyback

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*STP0t1OuwBmFf5WNMV6KsA.png)](/ferrumnetwork/announcing-
the-next-staking-project-vodra-frm-
buyback-7dcc87953050?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Chris
McClure](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*FkpQ04-CadekY3DcHD8gAA.png)](/@chrisbmc34?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Chris McClure

](/@chrisbmc34?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[Monerium

](https://medium.com/monerium?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Monerium raises seed round from ConsenSys, Crowberry Capital, and Hof
Holdings to issue e-money on…

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*_6_LGi20ZVtyF-
Wc.jpg)](/monerium/monerium-raises-seed-round-from-consensys-crowberry-
capital-and-hof-holdings-to-issue-e-money-
on-60fcbfed253e?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Huckleberry
Finn](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Y_KCBdoZ2qf5oj5hWKQUjA.png)](/@HuckleberryDEX?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Huckleberry Finn

](/@HuckleberryDEX?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

in

[Huckleberry DEX

](https://medium.com/huckleberrydex?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Chapter 12: Thatcher’s Reservoir Version 2

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*X3jdqGkpHnG2h_DGvC3VYA.jpeg)](/huckleberrydex/chapter-12-thatchers-
reservoir-version-2-882eb2553194?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----1f81c58e0ba4--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
1f81c58e0ba4--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
1f81c58e0ba4--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
1f81c58e0ba4--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
1f81c58e0ba4--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----1f81c58e0ba4--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----1f81c58e0ba4--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcentre-
blog%2Fcentre-consortium-announces-stellar-as-an-official-chain-for-
usdc-1f81c58e0ba4&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Centre
Consortium](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*wRsCjP1Dhm66E3gQ0s-80w.png)](/@centre-
consortium)

[

## Centre Consortium

](/@centre-consortium)

361 Followers

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F9533711fb373&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcentre-
blog%2Fcentre-consortium-announces-stellar-as-an-official-chain-for-
usdc-1f81c58e0ba4&newsletterV3=c6a8ffeeaa36&newsletterV3Id=9533711fb373&user=Centre+Consortium&userId=c6a8ffeeaa36&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![OriginStake](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*ezznzyzssaQauFpH1ET-
Sg.jpeg)](/@originstake.official?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------cd3b41bd_1db7_44ba_aa1a_b9d48b786066-------)

[OriginStake

](/@originstake.official?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------cd3b41bd_1db7_44ba_aa1a_b9d48b786066-------)

in

[OriginStake.com

](https://medium.com/originstake?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------cd3b41bd_1db7_44ba_aa1a_b9d48b786066-------)

## ORIGINSTAKE VALIDATOR — Once You Stake, Many More You Make! 🔥

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*tPjEeGtEHYLNT9_xOET1aw.png)](/originstake/originstake-
validator-once-you-stake-many-more-you-
make-e2fcd6f34027?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
cd3b41bd_1db7_44ba_aa1a_b9d48b786066-------)

[[![Zhifan
Wang](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*7Td8UyaKOcHYlhRCBWUGOg.jpeg)](/@ZFBWhite?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------cd3b41bd_1db7_44ba_aa1a_b9d48b786066-------)

[Zhifan Wang

](/@ZFBWhite?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
cd3b41bd_1db7_44ba_aa1a_b9d48b786066-------)

## SDGM560 Team Peach Week1

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*GiTYRk6O6VSRGEmtE5AF-g.png)](/@ZFBWhite/sdgm560-team-
peach-week1-491e4ccd2fc3?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------cd3b41bd_1db7_44ba_aa1a_b9d48b786066-------)

[[![Shiburai
Token](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*06G7lgsq_0bN3rgWXthXpg.jpeg)](/@Shiburai?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------cd3b41bd_1db7_44ba_aa1a_b9d48b786066-------)

[Shiburai Token

](/@Shiburai?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
cd3b41bd_1db7_44ba_aa1a_b9d48b786066-------)

## SHIBURAI TRANSCENDENCE BURN

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*KJIZ4HI6_Qkov8LR3TvRmA@2x.jpeg)](/@Shiburai/shiburai-
transcendence-burn-8d6b5f971c6f?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------cd3b41bd_1db7_44ba_aa1a_b9d48b786066-------)

[[![lobbytoken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*BOBGEPfgRlCrZ6I4xcANzw.png)](/@lobbytoken?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------cd3b41bd_1db7_44ba_aa1a_b9d48b786066-------)

[lobbytoken

](/@lobbytoken?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
cd3b41bd_1db7_44ba_aa1a_b9d48b786066-------)

## Lobby Statement of Principles

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*ce9o47rw5rJgplBabIWy8A.jpeg)](/@lobbytoken/lobby-
statement-of-principles-4b6ec5b85e18?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------cd3b41bd_1db7_44ba_aa1a_b9d48b786066-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

