[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/fa664dec3a0b&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Centre
blog](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*t6GLDn1glFoKf5YpMqQ1Rw.png)](https://medium.com/centre-
blog?source=post_page-----fa664dec3a0b--------------------------------)

Published in

[Centre blog

](https://medium.com/centre-blog?source=post_page-----
fa664dec3a0b--------------------------------)

[![Centre
Consortium](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*wRsCjP1Dhm66E3gQ0s-80w.png)](/@centre-
consortium?source=post_page-----fa664dec3a0b--------------------------------)

[Centre Consortium](/@centre-consortium?source=post_page-----
fa664dec3a0b--------------------------------)

Follow

Sep 9, 2020

·

5 min read

# Centre Consortium Announces Algorand as an Official Chain for USDC, Launches
on Mainnet

## Release Brings Major Scalability & Performance Improvements to Digital
Dollar Stablecoins for Global Consumer Payment Adoption

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*clI4LdSYdyTTwXlmOZpwvg.png)

 _San Francisco/Boston, September 9 —_ Today, the Centre Consortium is excited
to announce that Algorand is now an official blockchain for USD Coin (USDC).
The newly released mainnet implementation of USDC for Algorand is available
today, and becomes the second major blockchain after Ethererum with native
support for USDC. The Algorand blockchain brings significant innovations to
the market, specifically around transaction scale and speed, helping to expand
the use cases for USDC across a broad range of payments and financial
applications.

As evidenced by the recent and very rapid growth and usage of stablecoins on
public chains like Ethereum, there is a tremendous need for blockchain
infrastructure that can scale to support significantly higher transaction
throughput and lower fees on public Layer 1 blockchain infrastructure.
Critically, Algorand brings over 1,000 tps and transaction fees of 1/20th of a
cent to the USDC ecosystem, and soon to be released innovations from Algorand
offer the potential of scaling throughput by 8–10x on Layer 1, accompanied by
new secure smart contracts that complement standard tokens such as USDC.

This expanding support for USDC on new blockchains comes as USDC has rapidly
grown to over 1.8 billion in circulation, experiencing more than 3x growth in
the past six months, and decisively becoming the world’s leading compliant and
regulated digital dollar stablecoin.

Centre was formed with the vision of creating a global standard for fiat-based
internet-native digital currency, allowing money to be exchanged instantly,
globally and at a low cost over the open internet, in much the same way that
content, messages and data flow over the internet today. Just as the standards
and formats we use for content and data (HTTP) and communications (SMTP, SMS,
VOIP) work across multiple platforms, devices and operating systems, Centre
aims to ensure that its stablecoin standards, formats and protocols work
across multiple major blockchain platforms.

Earlier this year, Centre [announced its Multichain USDC Framework](/centre-
blog/centre-announces-multi-chain-usdc-framework-69a5b4b33bee), an effort to
increase interoperability and provide a wide range of developers, projects and
ecosystems with the power of USDC and future Centre stablecoins. The Centre
Multichain USDC Framework establishes a rigorous set of criteria for the
issuance and operation of USDC on new blockchains, while also supporting
innovation and experimentation by third-party developers and blockchain
platforms. Algorand is the first blockchain platform to achieve the highest
level of certification as an official chain for USDC, and will be an excellent
addition to the Centre multi-stakeholder ecosystem.

Centre has also been encouraged by the broad and growing interest in using
USDC within regulated financial institution settings, including by leading
consumer fintech and payments companies, global banking and securities firms.
Algorand brings a deep focus on the features and needs of regulated financial
institutions, supporting these expanding use cases.

“This is a defining milestone for frictionless mainstream payments as well as
sophisticated financial applications,” said Silvio Micali, Founder of
Algorand, Inc. “This launch brings together the convenience of USDC and an
advanced protocol for global financial exchange in which Layer-1 smart
contracts are as simple and secure as ordinary payments.”

“Expanding USDC from Ethereum to additional blockchains like Algorand will
ensure USDC has the flexibility to support everything from emerging DeFi
projects to large-scale financial institutions. Today’s launch represents a
significant improvement to USDC’s scalability, improving its utility and
making it a significantly more useful protocol for solving real-world
financial problems,” said Alesia Haas, Chief Financial Officer at Coinbase.
“We look forward to supporting USDC on Algorand for both our retail and
institutional customers in the future.”

“Algorand has been at the forefront of innovation in scalable, secure
blockchain infrastructure, and with the next major phase of growth with USDC
demanding web-scale infrastructure for global consumer payments applications,
we are excited to support the launch of USDC on Algorand,” said Jeremy
Allaire, Chairman and CEO of Circle. “Algorand’s focus on providing
capabilities that are geared towards regulated financial institutions is also
important as digital dollar stablecoins such as USDC become a core market
infrastructure in the financial services industry more broadly.”

# Availability

USDC for Algorand is [available today on the Algorand
Mainnet](https://goalseeker.purestake.io/algorand/mainnet/asset/31566704).
Also, today, Centre member and USDC issuer [Circle
announced](https://www.circle.com/blog/circle-rolls-out-circle-platform-
support-for-usdc-on-algorand-blockchain) the general availability of support
for Algorand within Circle’s family of [platform services and
APIs](https://developers.circle.com/), including Circle Payments, Wallets,
Marketplaces and Business Account APIs. Developers leveraging Algorand for
payments, commerce and financial applications now have access to powerful APIs
for connecting to banks and cards, storing and managing digital currency
wallets, and building custom financial applications.

As part of this release, wallet developers and exchanges can take advantage of
[new Circle Wallet APIs](https://developers.circle.com/docs/supported-chains-
and-currencies) that enable seamless cross-chain swaps of USDC-ERC20
(Ethereum) and USDC-ASA (Algorand), enabling applications that already support
USDC on Ethereum to be able to send and receive USDC over Algorand, and vice
versa.

 **About the Algorand Foundation**

The Algorand Foundation is a not-for-profit organization that has a vision of
a borderless, frictionless economy built on public, decentralized blockchain
technology. The Foundation, in partnership with Algorand Inc, has built the
Algorand blockchain protocol — initially designed by cryptography pioneer and
Turing award winner Silvio Micali and a team of leading scientists — as the
cornerstone of achieving this vision. The Foundation envisions a wide breadth
of applications being built on this protocol by a new, wider community of
mainstream developers. The Foundation is committed to facilitating this
innovation in a sustainable and eco-friendly manner by utilizing the Proof of
Stake consensus algorithm. For more information, visit
<https://algorand.foundation/>

**About Circle**

Circle is a global financial technology firm that enables businesses of all
sizes to harness the power of stablecoins and public blockchains for payments,
commerce and financial applications worldwide. Circle’s platform has supported
over 100 million transactions worth tens of billions of dollars, with nearly
10 million retail customers, over a thousand businesses, while storing and
securing more than $5 billion in digital currency assets. Circle is also a
principal developer of USD Coin (USDC), which together with Coinbase and the
Centre Consortium oversees the standards and protocol for what has become the
fastest growing, regulated, fully-reserved stablecoin. USDC now stands at a
1.8 billion market cap and is adding nearly 200 million net new digital
dollars in circulation every week. Today, Circle’s transactional services,
business accounts, and platform APIs are giving rise to a new generation of
financial services and commerce applications that hold the promise of raising
global economic prosperity for all through programmable internet commerce.
Learn more at <https://circle.com>

**About Coinbase**

Coinbase is the easiest and most trusted place to buy, sell, and manage
cryptocurrencies, offering a suite of products for individual investors,
active traders, businesses and institutions. Founded in June of 2012, Coinbase
has built the world’s leading compliant crypto company, serving 35 million
accounts in more than 100 countries. Coinbase has raised more than $525M in
funding from leading investors such as Andreessen Horowitz, Tiger Global
Management, IVP, USV, DFJ and NYSE, and has grown to more than 1,000
employees. Headquartered in San Francisco, Coinbase also has offices in
Portland, New York, London, Dublin, and Tokyo.

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Centre blog](/centre-blog?source=post_page-----
fa664dec3a0b--------------------------------)

An open source technology project designed to create a more inclusive global
economy, starting with USD Coin — the world’s second largest stablecoin
brought to you by Circle and Coinbase

[Read more from Centre blog](/centre-blog?source=post_page-----
fa664dec3a0b--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Paragjyoti
Deka](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*BzVPXAlWXKV8OXjuhUx63w.jpeg)](/@paragjyotideka?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Paragjyoti Deka

](/@paragjyotideka?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Hey Fractal Liquidity thanks for the follow!

](/@paragjyotideka/hey-fractal-liquidity-thanks-for-the-
follow-109f6bbd956f?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Alessandro
Raffelini](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*7LRNZCvuqCUCEfa5lhgy-Q@2x.jpeg)](/@araffelini?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Alessandro Raffelini

](/@araffelini?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

in

[The Capital

](https://medium.com/the-capital?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## The Model of Coexistence of Fiat and Cryptocurrency in an Economic Area

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*p4yMWnxMQJK2pS_U1dL22g.jpeg)](/the-
capital/the-model-of-coexistence-of-fiat-and-cryptocurrency-in-an-economic-
area-6146c401a8d0?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Adithya
Sridhar](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*ohyXXqxa4-ckOQYk)](/@adigator89?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Adithya Sridhar

](/@adigator89?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## 100 days into CardanoGold ( $CARGO)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*FXROc0slE4n9sxlPl0OJ1Q.png)](/@adigator89/100-days-
into-cardanogold-cargo-489a8edb479e?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Ishita
Bora](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*ZcT1nqEp2zUuNpm5gd-7fg.jpeg)](/@ishita-
bora3?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

[Ishita Bora

](/@ishita-bora3?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

in

[Blockofy

](https://medium.com/digital-notice-media-labs?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

## Why ByteBlock.art can be one of the most promising NFT marketplaces?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*739WyliVv3EWzqm2IfFLzA.jpeg)](/digital-
notice-media-labs/why-byteblock-art-can-be-one-of-the-most-promising-nft-
marketplaces-58f290e24826?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Crypto Rating Council](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*_T-
rIxEZIpYAwcpo.jpg)](/@crc-crypto?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[Crypto Rating Council

](/@crc-crypto?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

in

[Crypto Rating Council

](https://medium.com/crypto-rating-council?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Crypto Rating Council Adds CrossTower as its Newest Member

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*UOhikaxHbNUHq-1G0WWaHA.jpeg)](/crypto-
rating-council/crypto-rating-council-adds-crosstower-as-its-newest-member-
fc316f3dbef?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

[[![@cryptoklh](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*_pvGFN9p6jt7Zfc7CVLSBQ.png)](/@reviewsbonus?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[@cryptoklh

](/@reviewsbonus?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Tomocoin — Tomochain (TMC) — ICO Review

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*aeisBcM_oBAXGax5.png)](/@reviewsbonus/tomocoin-
tomochain-tmc-ico-review-f5d8c6badad9?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Mohammad
Nurdin](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*4sPkoJLhZh7IpVAD.)](/@mohammadnurdin?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Mohammad Nurdin

](/@mohammadnurdin?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## BTCUSDT -Crypto Trading Strategy from $15 to 0.2%/spot or 4%/future per
trade

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*ZlS5Murd3qQXcqdzO4orkw.png)](/@mohammadnurdin/btcusdt-
crypto-trading-strategy-from-15-to-0-2-spot-or-4-future-per-
trade-6812fbc3492d?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Oliver
M](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*PFHfq523NbreJLkNX6DhGg.jpeg)](/@Oliver_M?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Oliver M

](/@Oliver_M?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

in

[ydragon_io

](https://medium.com/ydragon-io?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## YDragon Update — September 2021

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*nUBHtiqkEK8Fvqc9.png)](/ydragon-
io/ydragon-update-september-2021-8cf7c5702fbc?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----fa664dec3a0b--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
fa664dec3a0b--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
fa664dec3a0b--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
fa664dec3a0b--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
fa664dec3a0b--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----fa664dec3a0b--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----fa664dec3a0b--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcentre-
blog%2Fcentre-consortium-announces-algorand-as-an-official-chain-for-usdc-
launches-on-mainnet-fa664dec3a0b&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Centre
Consortium](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*wRsCjP1Dhm66E3gQ0s-80w.png)](/@centre-
consortium)

[

## Centre Consortium

](/@centre-consortium)

361 Followers

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F9533711fb373&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcentre-
blog%2Fcentre-consortium-announces-algorand-as-an-official-chain-for-usdc-
launches-on-mainnet-
fa664dec3a0b&newsletterV3=c6a8ffeeaa36&newsletterV3Id=9533711fb373&user=Centre+Consortium&userId=c6a8ffeeaa36&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Mediocrity At Its
Peak](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*4FPu6v_6m2GXM5k6Nuu04A.png)](/@mediocrityspeak?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------4aa515d5_ac96_46f6_9ff3_7cb1f271e20f-------)

[Mediocrity At Its Peak

](/@mediocrityspeak?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
4aa515d5_ac96_46f6_9ff3_7cb1f271e20f-------)

## The Downpour: Prologue by Eve

](/@mediocrityspeak/the-downpour-prologue-by-
eve-4e8827cf9a05?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
4aa515d5_ac96_46f6_9ff3_7cb1f271e20f-------)

[[![Nyano Cats](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*sxL-
FFKMkFFAqlJ_NUwF7Q.png)](/@nyanocats?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------4aa515d5_ac96_46f6_9ff3_7cb1f271e20f-------)

[Nyano Cats

](/@nyanocats?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
4aa515d5_ac96_46f6_9ff3_7cb1f271e20f-------)

## Hey Nyano Fans

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*iJI-B-
vYh5aqDJwLQGWyOw.png)](/@nyanocats/hey-nyano-
fans-13726052b208?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
4aa515d5_ac96_46f6_9ff3_7cb1f271e20f-------)

[[![Space
Marvel](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*P_ubdmwWu_xD8bveFL-V8A.png)](/@Spacemarvelgame?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------4aa515d5_ac96_46f6_9ff3_7cb1f271e20f-------)

[Space Marvel

](/@Spacemarvelgame?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
4aa515d5_ac96_46f6_9ff3_7cb1f271e20f-------)

## Get to know more about Space Marvel Mystery Box

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*VNXfGXUvtmv65qh-O8GSAA.jpeg)](/@Spacemarvelgame/get-
to-know-more-about-space-marvel-mystery-box-
acaabb713e7?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
4aa515d5_ac96_46f6_9ff3_7cb1f271e20f-------)

[[![TYGR CUB
ALLIANCE](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*rd9q1NNCgk62NDukvMZ9ww.gif)](/@tygrnft?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------4aa515d5_ac96_46f6_9ff3_7cb1f271e20f-------)

[TYGR CUB ALLIANCE

](/@tygrnft?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
4aa515d5_ac96_46f6_9ff3_7cb1f271e20f-------)

## TYGR Cub Alliance: Mint Details, Roadmap & Utility Unveiled

![](https://miro.medium.com/freeze/focal/112/112/50/50/1*KLqHKqj6DCjOktx0MrksdA.gif)](/@tygrnft/tygr-
cub-alliance-utility-unveiled-2c0cc7c9de2f?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------4aa515d5_ac96_46f6_9ff3_7cb1f271e20f-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

