[ ![samczsun](https://samczsun.com/content/images/2022/01/casual-no-bg-
med.png) ](https://samczsun.com)

  * [Home](https://samczsun.com/)
  * [Research](https://samczsun.com/research/)
  * [Branding](https://samczsun.com/branding/)
  * [Contact](https://samczsun.com/contact/)

[ ](https://twitter.com/samczsun "Twitter")

Subscribe

# Changing Lanes

A reflection on my transition from Trail of Bits to Paradigm

  * [ ![samczsun](/content/images/size/w100/2022/01/casual-med-1.png) ](/author/samczsun/)

#### [samczsun](/author/samczsun/)

Oct 9, 2020 • 2 min read

![Changing Lanes](/content/images/size/w2000/2020/10/38961502_xl.jpg)

In early 2020, I was given an opportunity to join [Trail of
Bits](https://www.trailofbits.com/) over the summer. I was familiar with the
high quality of work that they produced so I happily accepted the opportunity
to meet and work with some of the brightest minds in software security.

During my time at Trail of Bits I worked on numerous engagements with
coworkers who were experts in all sorts of subjects, from cryptography to
binary analysis to formal verification. It was a truly great experience to be
able to collaborate with and learn from so many talented individuals.

When I wasn’t helping clients secure their software, I spent time improving
[Slither](https://github.com/crytic/slither), a static code analyzer for
Solidity, alongside [Josselin Feist](https://twitter.com/montyly). Although
program analysis isn’t my strong suit, I was able to improve quickly thanks to
Josselin’s mentorship and I’m proud to have been able to [contribute
back](https://github.com/crytic/slither/pulls?q=author%3Asamczsun) by
implementing support for inline assembly as well as identifying and fixing a
handful of internal bugs.

However, as summer drew to a close, I began considering what I wanted to do
next. At the same time, [Matt Huang](https://twitter.com/matthuang) from
[Paradigm](https://www.paradigm.xyz/) reached out with an offer to meet the
team. Not knowing much about Paradigm beyond the fact that two people I
respected, [Dan Robinson](https://twitter.com/danrobinson) and [Georgios
Konstantopoulos](https://twitter.com/gakonst/), worked there, I figured it
couldn’t hurt to chat.

After talking with Matt, [Fred Ehrsam](https://twitter.com/FEhrsam), [Alana
Palmedo](https://twitter.com/alanapalmedo), [Gus
Coldebella](https://twitter.com/g_co), and the others on the team, I realized
that Paradigm had amassed a group of extremely talented people, each a leader
in their respective fields. The thought of being able to work alongside them
and learn from their experiences was extremely exciting.

As such, I’m happy to share that I’m joining Paradigm as a Research Partner.
My responsibilities will include helping evaluate the security posture of
potential portfolio companies, assisting current portfolio companies,
advancing the overall security of the Ethereum ecosystem, but most
importantly, learning new things.

I’d like to thank [Dan Guido](https://twitter.com/dguido/) and everyone at
Trail of Bits for having me this summer as well as Matt Huang and everyone at
Paradigm for bringing me on board. I’d also like to thank the community for
your continued support. I wouldn’t be here without you, and I hope you’ll join
me in facing whatever the future holds.

[ ![Hiding in Plain Sight](/content/images/size/w600/2021/11/161381622_xl.jpg)
](/hiding-in-plain-sight/)

[

## Hiding in Plain Sight

Most people trust, but how many people verify?

](/hiding-in-plain-sight/)

  * [ ![samczsun](/content/images/size/w100/2022/01/casual-med-1.png) ](/author/samczsun/)

[samczsun](/author/samczsun/) Nov 11, 2021 • 9 min read

[ ![Two Rights Might Make A
Wrong](/content/images/size/w600/2021/08/53083335_xl.jpg) ](/two-rights-might-
make-a-wrong/)

[

## Two Rights Might Make A Wrong

Too much raw fish doesn’t make a better roll of sushi

](/two-rights-might-make-a-wrong/)

  * [ ![samczsun](/content/images/size/w100/2022/01/casual-med-1.png) ](/author/samczsun/)

[samczsun](/author/samczsun/) Aug 17, 2021 • 8 min read

[ ![The Dangers of Surprising
Code](/content/images/size/w600/2021/08/129446413_xl.jpg) ](/the-dangers-of-
surprising-code/)

[

## The Dangers of Surprising Code

The only thing worse than a bug in your code that breaks everything is a bug
in your code that subtly breaks one thing

](/the-dangers-of-surprising-code/)

  * [ ![samczsun](/content/images/size/w100/2022/01/casual-med-1.png) ](/author/samczsun/)

[samczsun](/author/samczsun/) Aug 13, 2021 • 7 min read

[samczsun](https://samczsun.com) (C) 2022

[Powered by Ghost](https://ghost.org/)

