![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/cindy-cohn-speaks-with-orchid-about-online-privacy-and-the-fourth-amendment/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/cindy-cohn-speaks-with-orchid-about-online-privacy-and-the-fourth-amendment/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/cindy-cohn-speaks-with-orchid-about-online-privacy-and-the-fourth-amendment/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/cindy-cohn-speaks-with-orchid-about-online-privacy-and-the-fourth-amendment/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/cindy-cohn-speaks-with-orchid-about-online-privacy-and-the-fourth-amendment/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/cindy-cohn-speaks-with-orchid-about-online-privacy-and-the-fourth-amendment/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Cindy Cohn speaks with Orchid about online privacy and the Fourth
Amendment](/static/6438821c800ade29df57f4b76a518d1b/Orchid_BlogImage_CCohn.jpg)

# Cindy Cohn speaks with Orchid about online privacy and the Fourth Amendment

Aug 3, 2020  
  

Many people have a vague sense that governments use the Internet as a place to
gather intelligence. What most may not know is the depth of state actors'
commitment to maximizing their power to gather data on people, including their
own citizens, en masse under the pretext of national security.

Cindy Cohn, Executive Director of the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), is
one of those working to stop, and even reverse, this shadowy digital
surveillance. She sits down with our own Alex Kehaya on the most recent
installment of [Follow the White Rabbit](https://www.orchid.com/podcast). EFF,
the oldest and largest digital civil liberties organization in the world, has
spent 30 years working to promote justice and transparency when it comes to
our online rights.

In this episode, Cindy and Alex discuss the little-known history of online
encryption and the battles that have already been fought to make today's
Internet privacy -- credit card encryption, private messages, and services
such as VPNs -- possible even over the objections of the government. For one
simple reason: "When we go online, our rights come with us," says Cindy.

According to Cindy, these powers often exceed the constitutional limits placed
on surveillance in the physical world, and many of the practices take place
under the authority of secret letters and little-known laws. For example, in
the United States so-called "national security letter" statutes let the
government demand information from companies with nothing more than a letter
saying the issue pertains to national security. With such a letter, government
agencies can access all the data that exists on the subject of the letter --
not simply emails or texts, but Internet browsing history, location data, and
more.

This opens loopholes for the government to behave in ways it never could in
the physical world. For one thing, federal officials regularly tap into the
Internet's backbone at key junctures where packets cross the country's border.
Because of the way online traffic flows, this captures huge amounts of
domestic traffic in addition to the foreign "threats" that are ostensibly
targeted. And if they find evidence of something they weren't actually looking
for, they can and do initiate domestic prosecutions based on this "collateral"
information. Effectively, the U.S. government operates an enormous dragnet
over the Internet -- in spite of the Fourth Amendment's prohibition of
"unlawful search and seizure."

Follow us down the rabbit hole: [listen to the conversation
here](https://www.orchid.com/podcast) or on your favorite streaming service.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)
  * [VPN](/tag/vpn/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Cindy%20Cohn%20speaks%20with%20Orchid%20about%20online%20privacy%20and%20the%20Fourth%20Amendment%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fcindy-
cohn-speaks-with-orchid-about-online-privacy-and-the-fourth-amendment%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fcindy-
cohn-speaks-with-orchid-about-online-privacy-and-the-fourth-amendment%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fcindy-
cohn-speaks-with-orchid-about-online-privacy-and-the-fourth-amendment%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/what-does-a-vpn-hide/)

#### What does a VPN hide?

](/what-does-a-vpn-hide/)

Apr 15, 2021

](/what-is-split-tunneling/)

[

#### What is split tunneling?

](/what-is-split-tunneling/)

May 3, 2021

](/why-ordinary-people-are-turning-to-vpns/)

[

#### Why Ordinary People Are Turning to VPNs

](/why-ordinary-people-are-turning-to-vpns/)

Jul 14, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

