[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/8dfc3e6f9ed0&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Bakkt Blog](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*AlKG-
xQ2sMx_lNi6YNVzWw.jpeg)](https://medium.com/bakkt-blog?source=post_page-----
8dfc3e6f9ed0--------------------------------)

Published in

[Bakkt Blog

](https://medium.com/bakkt-blog?source=post_page-----
8dfc3e6f9ed0--------------------------------)

[![Bakkt](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*SQ3I41QxAkBGpDHZXp093w.png)](/@BakktBlog?source=post_page
-----8dfc3e6f9ed0--------------------------------)

[Bakkt](/@BakktBlog?source=post_page-----
8dfc3e6f9ed0--------------------------------)

Follow

Aug 16, 2019

·

4 min read

#  **Cleared to Launch**

 _Bakkt’s bitcoin futures and warehouse to debut in September_

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*R1SgSTozjG5NOQT96PEPVA.jpeg)

One year ago, we announced our ambitious vision to bring institutional
infrastructure to digital assets with an end-to-end regulated marketplace.
That vision will be realized on September 23 when Bakkt launches custody and
physically-delivered daily and monthly bitcoin futures contracts in
partnership with ICE Futures U.S. and ICE Clear US.

Our contracts have already received the [green light from the
CFTC](https://sirt.cftc.gov/sirt/sirt.aspx?Topic=TradingOrganizationProducts&implicit=true&Status=Certified&CustomColumnDisplay=TTTTTTTTT)
through the self-certification process and user acceptance testing has begun.
With
[approval](https://www.dfs.ny.gov/reports_and_publications/press_releases) by
the New York State Department of Financial Services to create Bakkt Trust
Company, a qualified custodian, the Bakkt Warehouse will custody bitcoin for
physically delivered futures. This offers customers unprecedented regulatory
clarity and security alongside a regulated, globally accessible exchange in a
market underserved by institutional-grade infrastructure.

In recent weeks, we hosted
[events](https://twitter.com/Bakkt/status/1153369992722898945) in New York and
Chicago where we gathered roughly 150 customers, regulators, and market
participants to advance the dialogue in our industry, including a fireside
chat with CFTC Commissioner Dawn Stump. In Chicago, we had a conversation on
the regulation of digital assets with [SEC Commissioner Hester
Peirce](https://twitter.com/Bakkt/status/1158410838677626881), and we invite
you to [listen in](https://www.theice.com/insights/conversations/inside-the-
ice-house/sec-commissioner-hester-peirce-leans-in-on-bitcoin-innovation).

While much has been said about deficiencies in crypto markets, the advances
being made in the digital asset ecosystem are significant in terms of
participants, platforms and applications — not to mention the rapid pace of
development that continues through bear and bull markets. And by now, digital
asset markets are global and well-developed, but they have largely been
designed to serve retail customers rather than institutional participants.
Bakkt is bridging that gap to access this market and solve for [factors that
have slowed institutional participation](/bakkt-blog/putting-bakks-bitcoin-
futures-to-the-test-47e381b7dda1). Whether concerns relate to a lack of
liquidity, market quality and regulation, or issues with reliability, fees,
and operational risks, we are addressing these challenges with a transparent
offering.

We’re starting with the introduction of a regulated and secure [qualified
custodian for bitcoin](/bakkt-blog/custody-at-our-core-15f6b26d16d6) to
support our futures contracts. The Bakkt Warehouse, which is part of Bakkt
Trust Company, is built using the cyber and physical security protections that
support the world’s most actively traded markets, including the NYSE. In
addition, the independent governance and compliance requirements of a
qualified custodian mean that the Bakkt Warehouse is designed to meet the
highest standards of oversight.

Uniquely, Bakkt bitcoin futures contracts will not rely upon unregulated spot
markets for settlement prices, thus serving as a transparent price discovery
mechanism for the benchmark price for bitcoin. The importance of this
differentiator is only amplified by [reports](https://www.sec.gov/comments/sr-
nysearca-2019-01/srnysearca201901-5574233-185408.pdf) of significant
manipulative spot market activity, and [other
concerns](https://virtualmarkets.ag.ny.gov/) such as inconsistent anti-money-
laundering policies and weak compliance controls.

Bakkt’s bitcoin futures will be exchange-traded on ICE Futures U.S. and
cleared on ICE Clear US, which are federally regulated by the CFTC. Regulated
exchanges differ from trading platforms, such as crypto spot markets in many
respects, including risk management, compliance and market surveillance.

The Bakkt futures contracts will also be covered by the existing guaranty fund
at ICE Clear US, which has an established risk waterfall across multiple
commodities markets. An incremental $35 million is being contributed to the
existing guaranty fund with the addition of these new futures contracts.
Importantly, we’ve designed the Bakkt Warehouse to provide regulated, secure
custody of bitcoin that is protected by $125 million in insurance.

Providing a trusted ecosystem is our first objective. To do that we are
setting a higher standard, including an institutional compliance and anti-
money laundering program, settlement prices that are distinct from unregulated
spot prices, comprehensive market oversight, a guaranty fund contribution and
insurance. The trading and risk management tools that make all of this
possible have been centuries in the making.

Looking back to Milton Friedman’s prescient remarks in 1999, just as the
internet was taking hold, his clarity about the future of an internet-
connected economy was striking:

 _“The one thing that’s missing, but that will soon be developed, is a
reliable e-cash. A method where buying on the Internet you can transfer funds
from A to B, without A knowing B or B knowing A.”_

It was a provocative, perhaps largely unnoticed remark at the time, but was
followed a decade later by the watershed Bitcoin white paper and blockchain.
Today, we’re helping institutions, consumers, policy makers and regulators
engage in this emerging market through a trusted, secure and compliant
platform.

We are excited about supporting the future of digital assets at Bakkt. Until
our launch on September 23, we’ll continue onboarding and testing with market
participants. If you’re interested in trading the Bakkt Bitcoin Daily or
Monthly Futures contracts, contact us at
[sales@bakkt.com](mailto:sales@bakkt.com). We look forward to continuing our
work with market participants to bring more trust, access, opportunity and
utility to digital assets.

\--

22

\--

\--

22

## [More from Bakkt Blog](/bakkt-blog?source=post_page-----
8dfc3e6f9ed0--------------------------------)

Expanding access to the global economy by building trust in and unlocking the
value of digital assets

[Read more from Bakkt Blog](/bakkt-blog?source=post_page-----
8dfc3e6f9ed0--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![U.S. Money
Reserve](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*GOQc1grBt2OOaG7zOlAJkA.jpeg)](/@us-
moneyreserve?source=post_internal_links---------0----------------------------)

[U.S. Money Reserve

](/@us-moneyreserve?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Experts Say Cryptocurrency Not a Safe Haven, But Gold Is

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*zayehopN8-7x0Vgu.jpg)](/@us-
moneyreserve/experts-say-cryptocurrency-not-a-safe-haven-but-gold-
is-18dfbbc893cd?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![U.S. Money
Reserve](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*GOQc1grBt2OOaG7zOlAJkA.jpeg)](/@us-
moneyreserve?source=post_internal_links---------1----------------------------)

[U.S. Money Reserve

](/@us-moneyreserve?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## History of the Austrian Gold Philharmonic Coin | U.S. Money Reserve

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*5RLZpbFhT8oFb42O.jpg)](/@us-
moneyreserve/history-of-the-austrian-gold-philharmonic-coin-u-s-money-
reserve-6a03319b4e19?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Ckelvin
Khanh](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*HcHdLZWx8nuZg346.)](/@ckelvinkhanh32?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Ckelvin Khanh

](/@ckelvinkhanh32?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## BSCLaunch

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*I8WZEe5aUaDZ5G3MQAOJwg.png)](/@ckelvinkhanh32/bsclaunch-639dee07f406?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[[![Cameron
Welland](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*loDxoepbmkGMUrcPBWyK2w.png)](/@cameron-
welland1?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

[Cameron Welland

](/@cameron-welland1?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Whitepapers Deconstructed: Anchor Protocol

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*vcyQUpbo5q1TEZqfflYZRw.png)](/@cameron-
welland1/whitepapers-deconstructed-anchor-
protocol-d399a2a66346?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![PAC Public Relations -
Official](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*KnnMeSfN5Tl8YJjF2La9kg.png)](/@pacpublicrelations?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[PAC Public Relations - Official

](/@pacpublicrelations?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## PacCoin — Born Again!

](/@pacpublicrelations/paccoin-born-
again-48925af8a85c?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Pocket
NFTs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*70VnMRSr90_0Ufy1qKKcRA.png)](/@pocketnfts_io?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Pocket NFTs

](/@pocketnfts_io?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Four Leading Blockchain Networks You Need To Know About in 2021

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*OYjgAphtFvqdCrxlGzlf3w.png)](/@pocketnfts_io/four-
leading-blockchain-networks-you-need-to-know-about-
in-2021-523fa06ad449?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![XTRABYTES™
\(XBY\)](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*8UCC0DTTThUev2U_xBNtJg.png)](/@XTRABYTES?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[XTRABYTES™ (XBY)

](/@XTRABYTES?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Japan & Crypto — Beyond the Hype (Part 2)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*5rJ2O0L1ruoBhrpn.jpeg)](/@XTRABYTES/japan-
crypto-beyond-the-hype-part-2-2a35fa7391ba?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![PANews](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*l0mp6Pv8sz6JCYgE00wxwQ@2x.png)](/@PanonyOfficial_88105?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[PANews

](/@PanonyOfficial_88105?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

in

[PANONY

](https://medium.com/panony?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Why Do We Need Independent Third-Party Custody in the Crypto World？

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*T4JgJOHxTZhBMcjm.png)](/panony/why-
do-we-need-independent-third-party-custody-in-the-crypto-
world-d26feb3e3bb3?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----8dfc3e6f9ed0--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
8dfc3e6f9ed0--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
8dfc3e6f9ed0--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
8dfc3e6f9ed0--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
8dfc3e6f9ed0--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----8dfc3e6f9ed0--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----8dfc3e6f9ed0--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fbakkt-
blog%2Fcleared-to-launch-8dfc3e6f9ed0&source=post_page
--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Bakkt](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*SQ3I41QxAkBGpDHZXp093w.png)](/@BakktBlog)

[

## Bakkt

](/@BakktBlog)

4.4K Followers

Unlocking the value of digital assets. <http://www.bakkt.com> @Bakkt

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2Fc55ebf712084&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fbakkt-
blog%2Fcleared-to-
launch-8dfc3e6f9ed0&newsletterV3=7ba07c63daf5&newsletterV3Id=c55ebf712084&user=Bakkt&userId=7ba07c63daf5&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![The Dudes Crypto](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*VbI4_Ye-
ebE2lvKkTX9TOA.png)](/@thedudescrypto?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------2b9f8c80_120e_4240_8c71_5c3ca1e99ca0-------)

[The Dudes Crypto

](/@thedudescrypto?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
2b9f8c80_120e_4240_8c71_5c3ca1e99ca0-------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------2b9f8c80_120e_4240_8c71_5c3ca1e99ca0-------)

## 5 Keys To Being Successful (NFT/Crypto Edition) 🔑

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*PJt7ailmN85KBNxsDO1Ebw.jpeg)](/coinmonks/5-keys-
to-being-successful-nft-crypto-edition-608a834c8e4d?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------2b9f8c80_120e_4240_8c71_5c3ca1e99ca0-------)

[[![Non Fungible
Bitcoin](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*3nAz2VGvLEn1Vdnd8nXzRA.png)](/@nonfungiblebtc?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------2b9f8c80_120e_4240_8c71_5c3ca1e99ca0-------)

[Non Fungible Bitcoin

](/@nonfungiblebtc?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
2b9f8c80_120e_4240_8c71_5c3ca1e99ca0-------)

## What is Non-Fungible Bitcoin?

](/@nonfungiblebtc/what-is-non-fungible-bitcoin-
facf8aecab1d?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
2b9f8c80_120e_4240_8c71_5c3ca1e99ca0-------)

[[![zane
durant](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*7jBD5k-FST2XhSY78dKMxg.png)](/@zanedurant1?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------2b9f8c80_120e_4240_8c71_5c3ca1e99ca0-------)

[zane durant

](/@zanedurant1?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
2b9f8c80_120e_4240_8c71_5c3ca1e99ca0-------)

## Should You Hold or Sell ATH and Buy Back Later?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*TSNXY8E2xN1zSpSfHE_qzQ.png)](/@zanedurant1/should-
you-hold-or-sell-ath-and-buy-back-later-3ed0504b62a9?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------2b9f8c80_120e_4240_8c71_5c3ca1e99ca0-------)

[[![Ehsan Yazdanparast](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*I2ZEGKeALjFpCg-
cTNKyYg@2x.jpeg)](/@ehsan-yazdanparast?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------2b9f8c80_120e_4240_8c71_5c3ca1e99ca0-------)

[Ehsan Yazdanparast

](/@ehsan-yazdanparast?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
2b9f8c80_120e_4240_8c71_5c3ca1e99ca0-------)

## Cryptocurrency Market Updates (19 March 2022)

![Top Performing Crypto Assets \(19 Mar
2022\)](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*7Y6a0zhtC94nvGtuzx7uLg.jpeg)](/@ehsan-
yazdanparast/cryptocurrency-market-
updates-19-march-2022-f16143d585f0?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------2b9f8c80_120e_4240_8c71_5c3ca1e99ca0-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

