[](https://medium.com/)

[Get unlimited access](https://medium.com/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/ee76af9a9bcc&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderUser&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](https://medium.com/)

[Home](https://medium.com/)

[Notifications](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![CMT Digital
Limited](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/0*gcQM__5gv5TAyMwR.jpg)](/?source=post_page
-----ee76af9a9bcc--------------------------------)

[CMT Digital Limited](/?source=post_page-----
ee76af9a9bcc--------------------------------)

Follow

May 14, 2020

·

4 min read

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1392/1*ny_AmQLD0RvrilNzY3lUeg.jpeg)

#  **CMT Digital Backs FalconX to Build the Future of Digital Asset Trading**

We are excited to announce our participation in FalconX’s $17M round of
financing. We are joined by notable investors including Accel, Accomplice VC,
Avon Ventures, Coinbase Ventures, Fenbushi Capital, Flybridge Capital, and
Lightspeed Venture Partners. FalconX is a digital asset trading platform that
provides clients with fast, secure, and reliable execution using data science
to eliminate slippage and hidden fees. The Company was founded by Raghu
Yarlagadda and Prabhakar Reddy in 2018. Raghu, an engineer and entrepreneur by
background, held several product leadership roles prior to FalconX, including
at Google, where he was instrumental in scaling Chromebooks to a multi-billion
dollar revenue business. Prabhakar, an investor, engineer, and a serial
entrepreneur, previously drove blockchain and enterprise SaaS investments at
Accel, a VC firm that provides capital and support for startups in their seed,
early, and growth stages. The founding team blends Silicon Valley and Wall
Street, bringing experience from Google, Citadel, Goldman Sachs, Jump Trading,
PayPal, Pantera Capital, WorldQuant, Kraken, and Peak6 Investments. Having
worked with FalconX for the better portion of a year, we can attest to the
value-add of their platform and their phenomenal customer service. When we
onboarded and began to trade on the platform, the pricing provided by FalconX
was the best we had seen by a wide margin. FalconX is CMT Digital’s preferred
venue for execution because of their ultra-competitive pricing and smooth
settlement process. To date, FalconX has generated over $7 billion in global
trading volume at a quarterly growth rate of over 600% since launch. In
addition to CMT Digital, FalconX is trusted by over 170 global clients,
including hedge funds, crypto miners, exchanges, and some of the largest
crypto OTC desks.

We believe that the number of institutions seeking to obtain secure, reliable,
and cost efficient digital asset trading services will continue to increase.
However, the market has historically been underserved for a variety of
reasons; the most prominent of these challenges being liquidity aggregation.
FalconX bridges the inefficiencies in the crypto market by sourcing liquidity
from a myriad of digital asset industry participants, including exchanges,
miners, proprietary trading firms, and other liquidity providers. Through
utilizing predictive analytics and acting as a principal to every trade,
FalconX is able to provide industry leading best execution services.

A good analog to FalconX is Interactive Brokers, which built a brokerage firm
based on the shift from floor trading to electronic trading. One of the
reasons Interactive Brokers has been successful relates to their understanding
of market structure; specifically, liquidity in U.S. equities is largely
concentrated at the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq and one of the key
elements in getting an equities transaction completed is speed. Stated
differently, a faster broker is a better broker in the traditional equities
world. Crypto, on the other hand, looks very different from a market structure
standpoint because liquidity is fragmented and distributed across many
different venues globally. It is very unstructured. In the traditional
markets, through the FIX protocol, traders can easily access liquidity from
exchanges around the world. In crypto, in order to access liquidity, traders
need to deal with websocket and rest APIs, and miners may price their crypto
assets through Excel spreadsheets. Accordingly, what a broker needs to be
proficient at in crypto to provide best execution is fundamentally different
from what a broker needs to be proficient at in traditional finance. Let us
consider Google. At the advent of the Internet, there were significant
quantities of websites popping up all around the world. Google solved the
problem of how to structure search queries so that when looking at all of that
unstructured Internet data, a useful search result could be provided to users.
Similarly, FalconX looks at crypto liquidity sources around the world as
unstructured datasets, filters them, and provides a price that is competitive
and better than if a trader went to an exchange or another unstructured venue.
On the outside, FalconX looks like Interactive Brokers, but on the inside, it
looks like Google.

Historically viewed with skepticism by institutions, their appetite for crypto
is now steadily growing. Recently, famed hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones
bought bitcoin as a hedge against inflation, becoming one of the first big-
name macro investors to embrace bitcoin. This is a major moment for the
mainstream adoption of digital assets. With support from a powerful group of
investors, we believe FalconX will quickly become and maintain its status as a
key player in the institutional digital asset trading space for years to come.
We are thrilled to have the opportunity to work with, and invest in, the
FalconX team.

 **About CMT Digital**

Established in 2013, CMT Digital is the digital asset / blockchain-focused
subsidiary of the CMT Group, an international, proprietary trading and
investments firm with more than 20 years of operating history.

CMT Digital’s edge as an investor is a product of the synergistic relationship
among the crypto assets trading and technology team; the legal, regulatory,
and operations team; and the investment team. Each of these teams are highly
experienced in, and interact with, different aspects of the crypto assets and
blockchain technology industry and have separate networks and relationships
that they bring into the overall CMT Digital structure.

To date, CMT Digital’s investments have largely focused on the critical
infrastructure necessary to support a digital asset / blockchain integrated
society. In addition to FalconX, other portfolio companies include firms such
as Bakkt, BlockFi, Coinbase, Silvergate Bank, Crusoe Energy Systems, Lightning
Labs, and Dapper Labs. In addition, where we see strategic opportunity, we
seek to engage in the space beyond investing capital, whether that be as a
client, as a liquidity provider, through our expertise, or through our review
and testing of new products.

To connect with us, please email us at investments@cmt.digital.

\--

\--

\--

## [More from CMT Digital Limited](/?source=post_page-----
ee76af9a9bcc--------------------------------)

Follow

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F680078c3733f&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fcmtdigitalltd.medium.com%2Fcmt-
digital-backs-falconx-to-build-the-future-of-digital-asset-trading-
ee76af9a9bcc&newsletterV3=3f56c0cc3760&newsletterV3Id=680078c3733f&user=CMT+Digital+Limited&userId=3f56c0cc3760&source=-----ee76af9a9bcc
---------------------subscribe_user-----------)

CMT Digital, a division of the CMT Group, is focused on crypto asset trading,
blockchain tech investments, & legal/policy engagement.

Love podcasts or audiobooks? Learn on the go with our new app.

[Try
Knowable](https://knowable.fyi/?utm_source=medium&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=medium-
post-footer&source=post_page-----ee76af9a9bcc--------------------------------)

[](https://medium.com/?source=post_page-----
ee76af9a9bcc--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
ee76af9a9bcc--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
ee76af9a9bcc--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
ee76af9a9bcc--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
ee76af9a9bcc--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----ee76af9a9bcc--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----ee76af9a9bcc--------------------------------)

[Get
started](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fcmtdigitalltd.medium.com%2Fcmt-
digital-backs-falconx-to-build-the-future-of-digital-asset-trading-
ee76af9a9bcc&source=post_page--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![CMT Digital
Limited](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/0*gcQM__5gv5TAyMwR.jpg)](/)

[

## CMT Digital Limited

](/)

96 Followers

CMT Digital, a division of the CMT Group, is focused on crypto asset trading,
blockchain tech investments, & legal/policy engagement.

Follow

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F680078c3733f&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fcmtdigitalltd.medium.com%2Fcmt-
digital-backs-falconx-to-build-the-future-of-digital-asset-trading-
ee76af9a9bcc&newsletterV3=3f56c0cc3760&newsletterV3Id=680078c3733f&user=CMT+Digital+Limited&userId=3f56c0cc3760&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Adhan
Razzaque](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Gav2IolWJgFRUCYIK4Z1cQ.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@adhan.razzaque?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------476119d0_2670_4f06_a2f9_77e717fa7493-------)

[Adhan Razzaque

](https://medium.com/@adhan.razzaque?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------476119d0_2670_4f06_a2f9_77e717fa7493-------)

## CS 371p Spring 2022: Adhan Razzaque

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Gav2IolWJgFRUCYIK4Z1cQ.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@adhan.razzaque/cs-371p-spring-2022-adhan-
razzaque-f76ba2f0aa84?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
476119d0_2670_4f06_a2f9_77e717fa7493-------)

[[![Ajie
Winugroho](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*85E0z6P7-_Oa8OYOHFGa_A.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@ajiewinugroho?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------476119d0_2670_4f06_a2f9_77e717fa7493-------)

[Ajie Winugroho

](https://medium.com/@ajiewinugroho?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------476119d0_2670_4f06_a2f9_77e717fa7493-------)

## Integration and Settings HMS ML Kit Demo Project on Android Studio Arctic
Fox 2020.3.1

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*bwTQkHIrjgcjrBhfGD7SNA.png)](https://medium.com/@ajiewinugroho/integration-
and-settings-hms-ml-kit-demo-project-on-android-studio-arctic-
fox-2020-3-1-3d798922b1c4?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------476119d0_2670_4f06_a2f9_77e717fa7493-------)

[[![Earth
Hacks](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*4t6BB6J3W4-YDFEA)](https://earthhacksorg.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------476119d0_2670_4f06_a2f9_77e717fa7493-------)

[Earth Hacks

](https://earthhacksorg.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------476119d0_2670_4f06_a2f9_77e717fa7493-------)

## Event Recap — Haverford Idea Hack

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*KQvrEIa4WvGqVv-
Yc7I8yQ.png)](https://earthhacksorg.medium.com/event-recap-haverford-idea-
hack-307fb56e9f78?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
476119d0_2670_4f06_a2f9_77e717fa7493-------)

[[![Kamrul Hasan
Mahmood](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*KAGIFKy6Y920Bdg1CyHShg.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@earnpm?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------476119d0_2670_4f06_a2f9_77e717fa7493-------)

[Kamrul Hasan Mahmood

](https://medium.com/@earnpm?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------476119d0_2670_4f06_a2f9_77e717fa7493-------)

## $MARSH Now Supported on Frontier APP

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*EVRPkt_ptN3XpjGB0BH6Eg.png)](https://medium.com/@earnpm/marsh-
now-supported-on-frontier-app-2f5d6b35c655?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------476119d0_2670_4f06_a2f9_77e717fa7493-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](https://medium.com/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

