[ NAKAMOTO ](https://nakamoto.com)

  * [Home](https://nakamoto.com/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/nakamoto)
  * [Contribute](https://nakamoto.com/contribute/)
  * [About](https://nakamoto.com/about/)

__

__

# Coinbase’s Pragmatic Crypto Culture

Jan 3, 2020  5 min read  [Dan Romero](/author/dwr/ "Dan Romero")

[ ![Coinbase’s Pragmatic Crypto
Culture](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw==)
](/coinbases-pragmatic-crypto-culture/)

I worked at Coinbase from 2014 to early 2019. Over that period, I saw the
company grow from a small startup with a few dozen employees and a few hundred
thousand customers to a multinational operation with almost one thousand
employees and tens of millions of customers worldwide. If there is a defining
cultural trait that was responsible for that success it was the company’s
_pragmatism_.

This is not a word typically associated with cryptocurrency. From the
perspective of crypto natives, pragmatism means compromise and is in
opposition to what crypto stands for: rejecting the centralized fiat status
quo completely and replacing it with a superior, transparent, mathematically
pure, decentralized system that no one entity controls.

Meanwhile, from the perspective of crypto outsiders (including many people,
banks, and governments), anything concerning crypto is scary—no one controls
it!—and decidedly not pragmatic.

But it is in this tension where Coinbase’s advantage lies. As a cryptocurrency
company, Coinbase is built on and benefits from decentralized systems like
Bitcoin. However, its primary business—a cryptocurrency brokerage—requires a
strong and on-going relationship with the fiat world, including normal users,
traditional financial institutions, and regulators. In order to interface with
that system, it is first and foremost necessary to be pragmatic.  
  
This pragmatism was most evident in Coinbase’s core products. First, we
offered secure and simple crypto storage, which amounted to centrally storing
decentralized currency. Second, we allowed people to purchase Bitcoin and
Ether, which meant buying crypto with fiat currency. Each of these may seem
like a contradiction in terms, but the demand was there. And making these two
features "just work" for the greatest number of people required tradeoffs that
narrowly ideological partisans of either fiat or crypto would likely not have
made.

##  **Centrally storing decentralized currency**

Anyone who owns cryptocurrency knows that it’s a prime target for Internet-
based thieves. While the borderless and fungible nature of crypto makes it
attractive, perhaps its most important feature is that cryptocurrency
transactions are essentially irreversible. There’s no global reset button a
government or bank can press to return stolen funds. Once crypto is gone, it
is truly gone.

Given that cryptocurrencies can be lost or stolen without recourse, secure
storage was important early on. Beginning users typically do not want to deal
with the complexity of storing funds locally. Coinbase thus very quickly
became a custodian of a large amount of customer funds, a role that is better
understood today but seemed quite controversial in the early days of Bitcoin.
Wasn't the whole point to be your own bank, after all? Wasn't storing coins at
Coinbase defeating the point of cryptocurrency?

We had both a pragmatic answer to this and an ideological answer.

The pragmatic answer was that this is what customers wanted. Beginners often
didn't want to deal with the complexity of downloading and syncing a wallet;
they just wanted to buy and store crypto. And some advanced users, like fund
managers, wanted another entity with the right legal certifications to store
large amounts of money on their behalf. So just from the vantage point of
serving customers, Coinbase had to serve as a custodian of funds from very
early on. Moreover, Coinbase didn't just custody the funds – in most cases it
retained sole root access to the private keys. This is what allowed us to send
out password reset emails for the many customers who'd forgotten their
password and wanted to log back in, sometimes months or years after their
first crypto purchase. Password reset was a critical feature, but all of this
seemed to be against crypto ideology.

However, there was also a long-term ideological answer: (a) providing these
tools allowed beginners to eventually evolve into power users capable of
custodying their funds locally and (b) crypto wasn’t necessarily about
trusting no one, but more about giving you a _choice_ of whom to trust. You
could now choose whether to store funds on your own hard drive, or to keep
them with a service like Coinbase, or to keep some at a normal bank. The
advanced users who decided to self-custody (more on this shortly) kept the
rest of the system honest, but perhaps you didn’t need every user to do that
immediately to gain systemic benefit. And you definitely created more crypto
users overall by providing storage capabilities than by offloading that to the
user.

However justified, it was a critical imperative for Coinbase to keep
decentralized currency safe in a centralized fashion. The demand for
decentralized currency confounded the partisans of fiat, and the demand for
centralized storage certainly surprised many partisans of crypto. But the
combined demand existed, and we met it.  
  
Now, of course some advanced users demanded _decentralized_ storage as well.
Indeed, some advanced crypto users were quick to point out that self-custody
is “simple” to do. However, the same thinking was behind the “year of Linux on
the desktop”, or the idea that Dropbox could be [trivially
replaced](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=9224) with command line FTP.
Power users tend to underestimate technical complexity and undervalue
convenience. And convenience is what the vast majority of people want.  
  
With that said, of course Coinbase did provide tools for self-custody, both in
the form of a decentralized Coinbase Wallet and in terms of the basic
send/receive functionality available for all assets. We just made the
pragmatic calculation that it would take time for beginners to reach that
point of valuing and demanding decentralized custody, so we provided rest
stops along the way.

##  **Buying crypto with fiat currency**

One of the major use cases of cryptocurrency is buying and selling it for
dollars and other fiat currencies. Satoshi may not have anticipated this use
case, but (to say the least) it’s a very popular one!

To enable the seemingly simple operation of buying Bitcoin for dollars,
Coinbase needed to maintain a number of relationships to the analog financial
world. It needed not just API keys, but the regulatory and partnership work to
comply with the traditional financial system. Among other things that meant:

  *  _Compliance with the US government._ Coinbase is a US-based company and was thus required to follow American rules. More ideological companies took a more aggressive approach to compliance. However, unlike taxi laws or home rentals, financial regulations are often federal laws with significant penalties. This meant pursuing and obtaining dozens of licenses across state, federal, and international jurisdictions, and working closely with regulators on our approach.  

  *  _ _ _Working with banks and payments companies.___ In addition to our work with regulators, Coinbase’s core business model relied on partnerships with banks and payments companies. In the US, direct access to payment rails requires a bank charter. As a new bank charter has proven [well-nigh impossible to get](https://www.housingwire.com/articles/35929-why-are-there-almost-no-new-banks-since-the-crisis/) for many years, partnering is the next best option. However, most financial institutions are not interested in so-called money services businesses (MSBs) as customers. This is because the payments business is high volume and low margin with significant tail risk of negative news. As such, it was a high bar to obtain and maintain the partnerships that kept the banking and payment rails alive. In some cases that meant making compromises, especially around deplatforming customers that posed a regulatory or partnership risk.

These were the kinds of tradeoffs we had to make to keep the fiat rails open,
to allow people to make the seemingly paradoxical choice to buy digital
currency with fiat currency.

##  **Pragmatism just works**

More than most technologies, crypto is inherently ideological. And that’s a
good thing -- many of the early folks joined Coinbase because they believed in
those ideals. However, by leavening those ideals with a dose of pragmatism,
Coinbase built something valuable that millions of people use.

In particular, by allowing millions of people to buy their first
cryptocurrency, we increased the total addressable market for new apps and
services in the emerging crypto economy. I think we made the right tradeoffs.

[__](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://nakamoto.com/coinbases-
pragmatic-crypto-
culture/)[__](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https://nakamoto.com/coinbases-
pragmatic-crypto-
culture/&text=Coinbase%E2%80%99s%20Pragmatic%20Crypto%20Culture)[__](https://pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https://nakamoto.com/coinbases-
pragmatic-crypto-
culture/&media=&description=Coinbase%E2%80%99s%20Pragmatic%20Crypto%20Culture)[__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://nakamoto.com/coinbases-
pragmatic-crypto-
culture/&title=Coinbase%E2%80%99s%20Pragmatic%20Crypto%20Culture)[__](https://reddit.com/submit?url=https://nakamoto.com/coinbases-
pragmatic-crypto-
culture/&title=Coinbase%E2%80%99s%20Pragmatic%20Crypto%20Culture)[__](https://www.tumblr.com/widgets/share/tool?canonicalUrl=https://nakamoto.com/coinbases-
pragmatic-crypto-
culture/&title=Coinbase%E2%80%99s%20Pragmatic%20Crypto%20Culture)[__](http://vk.com/share.php?url=https://nakamoto.com/coinbases-
pragmatic-crypto-
culture/&title=Coinbase%E2%80%99s%20Pragmatic%20Crypto%20Culture)[__](https://getpocket.com/edit?url=https://nakamoto.com/coinbases-
pragmatic-crypto-
culture/)[__](https://t.me/share/url?url=https://nakamoto.com/coinbases-
pragmatic-crypto-
culture/&text=Coinbase%E2%80%99s%20Pragmatic%20Crypto%20Culture)

![Dan
Romero](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw==)

#### Dan Romero

[Website](https://danromero.org/) [Twitter](https://twitter.com/@dwr) [More
posts](/author/dwr/)

Former VP Coinbase.

[__Previous Post](/zcash-the-https-of-blockchains/)

[Next Post __](/beginners-guide-to-defi/)

### You might also like...

[ ![What will happen to cryptocurrency in the
2020s?](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw==)
](/crypto-in-the-2020s/)

##  [What will happen to cryptocurrency in the 2020s?](/crypto-in-the-2020s/)

Jan 5, 2020  7 min read

Please enable JavaScript to view the [comments powered by
Disqus.](https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript)

[ NAKAMOTO ](https://nakamoto.com)

__

