[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/a50107a6247a&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Colliderventures](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*vxdi2lXSJTXzlSEYISfFpg.jpeg)](https://medium.com/colliderventures?source=post_page
-----a50107a6247a--------------------------------)

Published in

[Colliderventures

](https://medium.com/colliderventures?source=post_page-----
a50107a6247a--------------------------------)

[![Collider
Ventures](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*vxdi2lXSJTXzlSEYISfFpg.jpeg)](/@collidervc?source=post_page
-----a50107a6247a--------------------------------)

[Collider Ventures](/@collidervc?source=post_page-----
a50107a6247a--------------------------------)

Follow

Nov 3, 2020

·

5 min read

# Collider Ventures is launching Collider Labs— a $1m pre-seed blockchain and
crypto venture building vehicle

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*K9ZWWk3h7JdtI83E9QRgdQ.jpeg)

Collider Labs is a response to the new realities 2020 had brought upon the
crypto industry as well as the global economy. The need for creative solutions
is tremendous. Nearly everyday at Collider, we meet top entrepreneurs who are
adapting to the changing landscape. We would often see companies at the
inception phase and we decided we must take action to support at this stage
too.

In addition, COVID19 has accelerated the world toward a remote-first work
culture, we see it as an opportunity to think outside the box and this is why
we’ve structured [Collider Labs](https://www.collider.vc/collider-labs) as our
own iterations of an accelerator program where Collider Labs will participate
in the work done with 10 remote teams. Collider Labs is a synergistic addition
to the foundation Collider has built with Collider Ventures 1 LP’s 15
investments.

 **Collider Labs Backstory**

In the midst of lockdown, it became very clear that the world after COVID is
not going to be the same anymore and we were determined to adapt fast and
innovate. We observed the global trends and set our predictions and insights
for the industry. We formed our strategy based on what are the most important
industry segments we believe are set to grow significantly and where we want
to be actively influencing.

Underpinning the current narrative are a few important factors that come
together to shape to the DeFi market uptrend:

# DeFi technologies maturity

Two years ago the use of stablecoin as a hedge from volatility was most of
what DeFi was about. MakerDAO and a handful of other projects were gaining
interest. But the DeFi ecosystem was in a barely embryonic state.

Fast forward to today, there are numerous versatile stablecoin, decentralized
exchanges, smart contracts insurance, synthetic assets markets, DeFi focused
interface products, cross network protocols and solutions. Bitcoin DeFi is the
latest to get the spotlight shined on as a lucrative and rather less developed
area in DeFi that we’re excited to see teams innovate in.

# Decentralized Governance Incentives

People value their participation in the ecosystem more than ever before. With
the Cambrian explosion of the DeFi space, we’re seeing significant
advancements in the decentralized governance space too, more people
participate in DAOs and contribute to open source projects. This is providing
a tailwind for the entire DeFi ecosystem. Many DeFi projects have doubled down
on community inclusion and provide incentives and stakeholder benefits for
contributors. This phenomenon became even more characteristic of the DeFi bull
run with projects like yEarn that has brought to the fore a new discourse
around Fair Launches.

# Traditional Finance meet DeFi

The future of crypto is the future of finance, we are beginning to see much
closer ties between the legacy financial world and the crypto world. A few
notable cases provide indisputable evidence to the institutional maturity the
industry is gaining:

  * Major US exchange[ Kraken was granted a US banking license](https://news.bitcoin.com/kraken-bank-cryptocurrency/). This puts the stamp on crypto companies officially becoming a challenger to the legacy financial industry.
  * A DeFi project for non-custodial lending and borrowing protocol,[ Aave gains a UK licence for Electronic Money Institution](https://www.theblockcrypto.com/post/75845/aave-uk-fca-emi-license-defi).
  * Major bank in Singapore,[ DBS is planning to launch a Digital Asset Exchange.](https://www.coindesk.com/singapore-bank-dbs-looks-to-be-planning-a-digital-asset-exchange)

The strides made by different teams in the industry are providing a solid
foundation on which innovative solutions can be built and grow at a faster
pace than ever before.

# Collider Lab Launch

With trends we’ve observed and our hypothesis, we’re thrilled for Collider
Labs to kick off with great tailwinds. We are eager to work with world class
founders who are working on important projects, Collider Labs will support,
partner with and accelerate entrepreneurs through the process of achieving
product market fit and reaching growth.

We’re very grateful to Collider Labs’ LPs for their vote of confidence. Labs’
LPs come from across several regions and industry sectors.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*yHQvqHkcEF9cDQz4-DmrEA.jpeg)

 **Avishay Ovandia — Collider Labs Managing Partner**

> Crypto and Blockchain is becoming much more than the niche it used to, it is
> the New Economy. In 2020 we’ve witnessed an acceleration toward digital and
> the crypto world is playing a key role in this shift. I’m excited to work
> with great teams on cutting edge projects in the crypto space. We believe
> that the projects we partner with at Collider Labs today, are those set to
> become the foundations on which the future of digital finance will stand
> upon for decades to come.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/704/1*RbkLlgnCZQMJ_UWoudvpEw.jpeg)

 **Adam Benayoun — Collider Ventures General Partner**

> “Forming a Collider Labs, a venture builder vehicle is strategic to the
> investments we’ve done in Collider Ventures. We have backed some of the
> leading projects in the industry across the stack, adding more capabilities
> to Collider strengthens our capabilities as a VC firm. With Labs we are able
> to invest across wider spectrum of deals and most importantly support world
> class founders who are building great projects.

# Details about Labs:

Collider Labs will invest in 10–12 companies over the coming 2 years as well
as incubate in house products.

Check out more details on Collider Labs’ website:

[

## Collider Labs | Collider Ventures

### Who We Are Collider Labs pairs with early stage companies from inception
by providing them with initial capital, an…

www.collider.vc

](https://www.collider.vc/collider-labs)

##  **Collider Labs in the media**

[

## Israeli blockchain accelerator Collider Labs raises $1m

### In the past two years the blockchain and cryptocurrency industry has
shrunk considerably, and many companies have…

en.globes.co.il

](https://en.globes.co.il/en/article-israeli-blockchain-accelerator-collider-
labs-raise-s1m-1001346789)

[

## Collider Labs Raises $1M to Invest in Blockchain Startups - CoinDesk

### Collider Labs has raised $1 million to be invested in early-stage
blockchain and cryptocurrency startups. In an…

www.coindesk.com

](https://www.coindesk.com/collider-labs-raises-1m-to-invest-in-blockchain-
startups?fbclid=IwAR2hYbuVNTmdSBNiZVJnui9XC-r8QMJufaIRisrOutU3iRDSB68pSe8oesA)

# Learn More about Collider Ventures

  * Website: [www.collider.vc](https://www.collider.vc/)
  * Twitter: <https://twitter.com/collidervc>
  * LinkedIn: <https://www.linkedin.com/company/colliderventures/>
  * Facebook: <https://www.facebook.com/colliderventures/>

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Colliderventures](/colliderventures?source=post_page-----
a50107a6247a--------------------------------)

Collider Ventures — Full stack blockchain and crypto investment group

[Read more from Colliderventures](/colliderventures?source=post_page-----
a50107a6247a--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![zach2600](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*0-VC8dBkoMmqDXf2)](/@zachielshane2006?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[zach2600

](/@zachielshane2006?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

in

[CryptobrosResearch

](https://medium.com/cryptobrosresearch?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Upcoming NFT Airdrops across all Blockchains

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*K5Ww462pbpp78CwayM60gg.png)](/cryptobrosresearch/upcoming-
nft-airdrops-across-all-blockchains-f4fae7b5cd60?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[[![Crypterium](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*AeT2vNcTUW74UMy1Du0ugw.jpeg)](/@crypterium?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Crypterium

](/@crypterium?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

in

[Crypterium

](https://medium.com/crypterium?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Week In Review: Bitcoin Stagnation Close To End; Volatility Down

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*qHJddC1KtKEl5V3TSsa_uQ.jpeg)](/crypterium/week-
in-review-bitcoin-stagnation-close-to-end-volatility-
down-a41467d5bf03?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![D.W.](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*7S-uV6Lw8wfVzor-
Ol5Huw.jpeg)](/@dixon-on-standard?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[D.W.

](/@dixon-on-standard?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[Standard Protocol

](https://medium.com/standard-protocol?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Standard Protocol on Polkadot Decoded 2021

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*76EcvhMZAtSaLGEi-6lnpw.png)](/standard-
protocol/standard-protocol-on-polkadot-
decoded-2021-4c699776bc20?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![TheBitTimes.Com](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Gw3pXTta4bJHXm51Tf_1uw.png)](/@thebittimes.com?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[TheBitTimes.Com

](/@thebittimes.com?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Kyrgyzstan Introduces New Electricity Tariffs for Bitcoin Miners

](/@thebittimes.com/kyrgyzstan-introduces-new-electricity-tariffs-for-bitcoin-
miners-717b7889d326?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Napoleon
Group™](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*MzgebH4pmVZIDuyQQAz8GQ.jpeg)](/@napoleon-
group?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

[Napoleon Group™

](/@napoleon-group?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

in

[NapBots

](https://medium.com/napoleon-software?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## The emerging trends in trading bot technologies

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*sFwEQRpUR5H6TpA-
EZu84w.jpeg)](/napoleon-software/the-emerging-trends-in-trading-bot-
technologies-a44984e8a62c?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Crix
Exchange](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*YU5MPoUlGOR9raUM.jpg)](/@CrixExchange?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Crix Exchange

](/@CrixExchange?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Does KYC really matter?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*IQV_wqj1hFm-Q8cndIrxcw.jpeg)](/@CrixExchange/does-
kyc-really-matter-3a6ace6faf44?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![OWNR
Wallet](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*TKNEnhSLrA8Eevfv8d0BGw.png)](/@ownrwallet?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[OWNR Wallet

](/@ownrwallet?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[ownrwallet

](https://medium.com/ownrwallet?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## CRYPTO DIGEST

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Qg2nkGhxvic16d4qd9FWdg.jpeg)](/ownrwallet/crypto-
digest-adcf6e5f3ca8?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![BestRate](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*XypsvgPBhHOTS7WIVzUdeA.jpeg)](/@bestrate?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[BestRate

](/@bestrate?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

in

[BestRate

](https://medium.com/cryptoswitch?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## API for Crypto Payments via Your Own Binance Crypto Exchange Account

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*kO0ckzlf-
rWK27yL.png)](/cryptoswitch/api-for-crypto-payments-via-your-own-binance-
crypto-exchange-account-7f01ec9072d8?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----a50107a6247a--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
a50107a6247a--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
a50107a6247a--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
a50107a6247a--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
a50107a6247a--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----a50107a6247a--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----a50107a6247a--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcolliderventures%2Fcollider-
ventures-is-launching-collider-labs-a-1m-pre-seed-blockchain-and-crypto-
venture-a50107a6247a&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Collider
Ventures](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*vxdi2lXSJTXzlSEYISfFpg.jpeg)](/@collidervc)

[

## Collider Ventures

](/@collidervc)

5 Followers

Collider is full stack blockchain & crypto venture fund.

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fusers%2F7ac4d94e057%2Flazily-enable-
writer-
subscription&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcolliderventures%2Fcollider-
ventures-is-launching-collider-labs-a-1m-pre-seed-blockchain-and-crypto-
venture-a50107a6247a&user=Collider+Ventures&userId=7ac4d94e057&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Valen](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*S1VcjDb3PBhiGdaz.jpg)](/@Valen_HL?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------0e6ad522_b892_4e3f_8ecb_d12900f44689-------)

[Valen

](/@Valen_HL?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
0e6ad522_b892_4e3f_8ecb_d12900f44689-------)

## We’re early. What does that really mean?

](/@Valen_HL/were-early-what-does-that-really-
mean-566a64d7fbc0?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
0e6ad522_b892_4e3f_8ecb_d12900f44689-------)

[[![Raziel](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*LI29OC8Nnmq_5YrxHfW3xw.png)](/@arcadeventures?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------0e6ad522_b892_4e3f_8ecb_d12900f44689-------)

[Raziel

](/@arcadeventures?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
0e6ad522_b892_4e3f_8ecb_d12900f44689-------)

## Arcade Ventures: The day you become a VC

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*-NEVNrhUFK0usT9T_Fk2kA.png)](/@arcadeventures/arcade-
ventures-the-day-you-become-a-vc-420e2ee29da8?source=read_next_recirc---------
1---------------------0e6ad522_b892_4e3f_8ecb_d12900f44689-------)

[[![i3D
Protocol](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*VEIpJswwJpr_6_Heq266uw.png)](/@mikedoyle-
invluencer?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
0e6ad522_b892_4e3f_8ecb_d12900f44689-------)

[i3D Protocol

](/@mikedoyle-invluencer?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------0e6ad522_b892_4e3f_8ecb_d12900f44689-------)

## Invluencer: Decentralised VC through the i3D Protocol & Polygon

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Gy1rwqUnjM-
EajYAByMd0A.png)](/@mikedoyle-invluencer/invluencer-decentralised-vc-through-
the-i3d-protocol-cd95c265bc52?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------0e6ad522_b892_4e3f_8ecb_d12900f44689-------)

[[![DaoInsight](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*l_8Qr1XZN380cVtvkbai2Q.jpeg)](/@daoinsight.project?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------0e6ad522_b892_4e3f_8ecb_d12900f44689-------)

[DaoInsight

](/@daoinsight.project?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
0e6ad522_b892_4e3f_8ecb_d12900f44689-------)

## DAO Insight | Will DAOs Replace Crypto Venture Capital?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*R8F7ptyudpXqVCaQb7bH2g.jpeg)](/@daoinsight.project/dao-
insight-will-daos-replace-crypto-venture-
capital-d604db7dd1df?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
0e6ad522_b892_4e3f_8ecb_d12900f44689-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

