[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![Come Work With Us - Developer
Relations](/static/50a80be0eec0672f1b3c53eea1f487e8/2a43b/header.jpg)

[Team](/blog/category/team/)

## Come Work With Us - Developer Relations

By [Joshua Long](/blog/author/joshua-long/)

·

June 11, 2020

We are currently on the lookout for an amazing communicator with technical
knowledge to join our dynamic, distributed team. If this sounds like it might
be of interest to you, [you can apply right now via our
website](https://hack.akasha.org/developer-relations/en), or read on to find
out what kind of things you'd be doing if you ended up joining us on our
journey!

**Why do you want someone to do dev relations?**

As you may know, we are currently working on [Ethereum
World](https://ethereum.world/), a project that seeks to _unify the Ethereum
ecosystem by integrating decentralized apps into a simple, delightful social
experience_. In order to achieve this we need to be as open and communicative
as possible with the large community of developers that are building amazing,
world-changing things on Ethereum.

As part of the Team, you will make sure that this critical avenue of
communication is established and maintained, building and nurturing these
relationships as well as shaping the pathways which key messages take. They
will also be an important part of taking developments in [Ethereum
World](https://ethereum.world/) and [the AKASHA World
Framework](https://akasha.world) and making them known to the community at
large, allowing us to fulfil our aims of radical transparency and of bringing
more people into the amazing, ever-growing world of Ethereum.

**Who will I be working closest with?**

You will work between our Development and Community teams, helping to distil
the work coming out of our Dev Team into articles, posts, and presentations
that are informative and engaging, whilst also working with our Community Team
to inform communications strategy.

This being said, AKASHA is small and dynamic, and for a lot of things we need
all hands on deck. This approach to work ensures that your working weeks
should be full of all the variety and novelty needed to make sure you love
working at AKASHA.

**Who you are**

You are a top-class communicator who is comfortable around developers and
technical language. You understand that in order to be able to build
communities you have to have a shared understanding of the tools and values
that are on offer to individuals on the outside looking in, as well as
creating a culture that excites and engages all those who are a part of it.

You want to actively work against the creeping climate of centralization,
censorship, and big data collection that has permeated Web 2.0. You want to
create a better home of mind, one which unlocks the innate potential of human
beings and creates the conditions possible for the emergence of collective
intelligence at both global and regional scales.

**How do we work?**

AKASHA sets quarterly objectives which are fed into and steered by all team
members, we review our progress every two weeks in the AKASHA All-Hands
Meeting.

On any given day you may take part in video-call meetings, communicate with
other team members, and collaborate on internal documents. As the Team works
remotely, being a part of it means you will need to be driven and able to
communicate a lot. _Over communication_ is critical to getting everyone up to
speed with what you are working on, as well as being able to leverage the many
great minds that currently make up the AKASHA hive.

We normally meet IRL at least once a year for a retreat, which is
unfortunately not on the cards for 2020 due to the global pandemic.

**Why should I want to be a part of the AKASHA Team?**

AKASHA works at the intersection of blockchain technology and collective
intelligence; as a part of the Team you get to play with ideas that could
reshape entire industries. Wow!

We penned [an article](https://akasha.org/blog/2019/06/25/how-we-work) last
year which explores some of the ways in which our distributed, flexible way of
working is a radical departure from the 9 to 5 that a lot of people are used
to. On top of this you can check out the kinds of people you'd be working with
through [our Team blog series](https://akasha.org/blog/category/team/).

The main highlights are:

  * a meaningful job where the work is geared towards having a positive impact on the world,
  * an environment that aims to foster excellence and creativity,
  * competitive compensation,
  * flexibility,
  * continuous learning opportunities and unique challenges, and
  * a bunch of very, very friendly faces.

So, what are you waiting for? Get applying:
<https://hack.akasha.org/developer-relations/en>

[Header image taken from Pixabay](https://pixabay.com/illustrations/planet-
ufo-the-globe-the-world-2087558/)

[Team](/blog/category/team/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2020/06/11/dev-
relations-come-work-with-us)

