[ ![The Integral](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/04/dydx-
logo-white-1.svg) ](https://integral.dydx.exchange)

  * [ ![The Integral](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/04/dydx-logo-white-1.svg) ](https://integral.dydx.exchange)
  * ### Categories

[

###

Open Finance ](/tag/open-finance/)

[

###

Derivatives ](/tag/derivatives/)

[

###

Macroeconomics ](/tag/macroeconomics/)

[

###

dYdX Announcements ](/tag/dydx-announcements/)

[

###

Educational ](/tag/educational/)

[Trade](https://trade.dydx.exchange)

# Comparing DeFi Token Models

[Open Finance](https://integral.dydx.exchange/tag/open-finance/) • Aug 10,
2020

[
](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://integral.dydx.exchange/comparing-
defi-token-models/&title=Comparing%20DeFi%20Token%20Models) [
](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Comparing%20DeFi%20Token%20Models&url=https://integral.dydx.exchange/comparing-
defi-token-models/)

## Introduction

>  _DeFi tokens have recently been far and away the best performing sector in
> the cryptocurrency markets. The primary reason they have seen such growth
> can be boiled down to a single factor: they accrue value. Most DeFi token
> models are designed in such a way where token holders benefit proportionally
> to network usage and growth. In fact, many of the most popular models
> operate similarly to traditional equity, in which holders value the asset
> based on the fees earned by the network as well as the ability to govern it.
> DeFi tokens also incorporate some form of incentive design to align the
> interests of the network with long term holders, staking being a popular
> example. While DeFi tokens have passed the initial value capture test, many
> of these models can be upgraded. Over time, more experiments will illuminate
> how to best capture value from a decentralized financial network through a
> token._

The idea of using tokens to incentivize decentralized network growth isn’t
new. Fred Ehrsam’s [early blog post](https://blog.coinbase.com/app-coins-and-
the-dawn-of-the-decentralized-business-model-8b8c951e734f) on the
decentralized business model described how a token could be used to help solve
the proverbial chicken and egg problem faced by networks and marketplaces. The
problem with this early implementation was that there was no way to
distinguish speculators from long term investors or users committed to the
network. We saw this play out during the 2017 ICO bubble — tokens were sold
off to speculators who quickly flipped them for a quick profit, leaving the
actual networks completely behind.

Since then, the industry has been able to experiment with token models
designed to create multi-sided networks with long-term focused participants.
DeFi in particular was a perfect breeding ground for this experimentation
because the general utility of the sector like staking, lending, and borrowing
meant that new users were joining networks, which created a larger sample set
to test token incentives with. As a result of this experimentation, three
distinct token models have emerged, but it’s also very common for tokens to
combine features.

  1. Fee Tokens (cash flows)
  2. Governance Tokens (governing rights)
  3. Collateral of Last Resort Tokens (system re-collateralization)

Interestingly, many of the most successful tokens incorporate both
functionalities. Many tokens also start off as governance tokens and then look
to add in some type of fee capture only if token holders vote for and approve
it. This also has implications around the regulatory classification for many
of these tokens. Naturally, we can expect network participants to push for
more value capture.

## Token Classification

![](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/08/Tokens.png)Today's
DeFi Tokens

 **Fee Tokens**

Fee tokens are tokens which have a cryptographically verifiable claim on fees
generated by a DeFi protocol. Fees are typically baked into accessing and
using the DeFi protocol — very similar to transaction fees charged by
traditional financial service providers. These fees can be passed directly to
the Ethereum address that holds the underlying fee token or into an omnibus
wallet architecture. So far, fees have been distributed either in stablecoins,
an underlying network token, or in ETH.

In some instances, token holders can vote on how to use the fees accrued to
them. In the case of Kyber Network, token holders can use their funds to buy
back KNC on the open market and burn them out of the supply. Buy & burn’s are
a frequently used feature for deflationary DeFi tokens to accrue value.

Fee tokens are a big step forward for DeFi token models because they can be
valued on the basis of cash flow. This makes it easier for investors to reason
about valuation relative to the various intangible factors used to value hard-
capped, fixed issuance money assets like Bitcoin and Monero. Now, tokens can
be valued on the basis of their future cash flow, and can be compared against
one another to identify mispricing amongst projects building for similar use
cases.

**Governance Tokens**

Governance tokens are those which give holders the ability to vote on how the
project’s underlying smart contracts function. The rationale behind the value
of governance tokens is that a fully decentralized protocol shouldn’t be owned
by anyone. Token holders are intended to collectively own the set of contracts
and to decide how they change over time.

So far, DeFi tokens supporting governance have been used to vote on proposals
around which assets are supported, collateralization levels for certain
assets, and where protocol fees should be directed. For example, Compound has
received an influx of new proposals recently for deciding how much value can
be borrowed against certain assets.

Over time, governance will shift towards deciding over how smart contracts are
upgraded. This will be done programmatically: once a vote is confirmed, smart
contracts can adapt without human intervention. To do this, developers would
need to include finished code along with their proposals, so the smart
contracts can automatically integrate it once voting is complete.

**Collateral of Last Resort Tokens**

Collateral of last resort tokens are tokens that act as backstops to a price
peg that a DeFi protocol attempts to maintain. For protocols in which
synthetic assets are created, there can be situations where there is not
enough external collateral to restore the peg of a synthetic asset. In this
case, the underlying network token can be used as a source of liquidity to buy
and/or sell assets required to restore any peg. In exchanges for serving as
the protocol’s backstop, holders of collateral tokens are usually rewarded
with a share of network fees.

Two of the most prominent examples are MKR and MTA. MKR was the first token
model to pioneer the collateral of last resort functionality. If for any
reason the system becomes uncollateralized, MKR is sold on the open market to
backstop the Dai supply. With MTA, if any of the stablecoins within its basket
lose their peg, MTA can be sold to make sure stablecoin depositors are made
whole.

 **Staking and Inflation**

Two elements present in many DeFi token model implementations are staking and
inflation.

Staking is used to align holders with the long term interests of the protocol.
Through staking, holders lock up their assets for the future, effectively
removing them from the circulating supply so fewer tokens can be sold. More
importantly, users often stake for the right to provide a service to other
participants in the network. In exchange for providing this service, and in
effect making the network more valuable, stakers are rewarded via inflation.

The inflation funding model has proven to be quite successful for
bootstrapping liquidity in the earlier days of a protocol. For example,
Synthetix used inflation to incentivize stakers to create synthetic assets and
then seed Uniswap with them so that there were liquid secondary markets. This
culminated in the sETH pool being one of the most liquid places to trade ETH
on Uniswap.

Staking also has a particular effect on market structure, and whether or not
it is beneficial is up for debate. In general, staking yields, and
specifically high staking yields create negative pressure on liquidity, making
it difficult for buyers and sellers to transact without having a large effect
on the price.

There are two reasons it dampens liquidity:

  1. Staking yields increase borrow costs
  2. Holders are incentivized to stake and keep assets off exchange

High borrow costs make it difficult for market makers to acquire the inventory
required for a two-sided market. The fees they can earn by providing liquidity
can’t outperform the fees required to compensate holders on their forgone
stake, especially early on in a network’s cycle when the inflation rate is
highest. Similarly, high borrowing costs deter short sellers because their
expected return would have to cover price depreciation and the staking yield.
Given the recent price action of DeFi projects, it’s very unlikely that many
short sellers are going to play in this market. Another side effect of high
staking rewards is that holders are somewhat disincentivized to keep their
assets on exchange.

Low liquidity can lead to high volatility, and in the case of many high
promising DeFi tokens, it’s upwards volatility. DeFi tokens that actually
accrue value almost always have a bullish market structure because there are
so few sellers. This makes DeFi tokens very convex — a great great example is
SNX.  

![](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/08/Staking.png)

 **Value Capture**

The most novel feature DeFi token models bring to the crypto space is the
ability for a token to have intrinsic value.

Prior to DeFi tokens, very few token models could be valued on any
quantitative basis. The first generation of crypto assets in general weren’t
valued, they were priced, and market participants would primarily react to
market structure and narratives. This fundamental gap in intrinsic value is
what made the crypto markets so speculative and volatile. Once it was broadly
discovered that those assets could only accrue value by having strong holders,
exchanges launched pseudo equity tokens in which earned revenue was used to
buy back and burn tokens, effectively mimicking a dividend. Exchange tokens
were a bit flawed in that the buy and burn process was not transparent.
Holders had no idea if purchases were being front run or if purchases were
even happening at all. So far, exchange tokens leave much to be desired in
terms of value accrual.

With DeFi tokens, protocol fees directly accrue to token holders, so network
value can be analyzed through basic frameworks like Discounted Cash Flow (DCF)
at minimum. A valuation can be derived from forecasting out future network
growth and then reasoning through what it should be worth today. Additionally,
DeFi platforms are unique in that they usually need to bootstrap a supply side
to sufficiently serve the demand side. To do this, many token models
incorporate staking and inflation rewards (as mentioned above), which means
holders are incentivized to keep tokens out of circulating, creating a
dampening effect on selling, which in turn leads to greater value capture.

DeFi tokens with purely governance capabilities are a bit different in terms
of value capture. Based on first principles, the value of a governance token
should equal the marginal cost to fork the network. DeFi networks are
different in that forking the code doesn’t necessarily mean you can fork all
of the liquidity away, which is the defining moat within DeFi. Given this, the
market is likely placing some premium on governance, even more so for
completely community run projects like Yearn Finance. Since launching, Yearn
has performed much better than COMP and BAL, two of the other most dominant
governance tokens.

![](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/7B0RRbzY1quYqAm7k9nVirLkF5IwAgaIOzXDEGQmMJdq83aVxmIL-
WZjFP-
GDQ7pIKugXw9aHEhii1a3zReQYlOe6_diar0x_JMnfgdKOTpcai7_uFtl4MbuyQsY4k7quzG5T5-4)

 _(source: coingecko.com)_

 **Bootstrapping with Liquidity Mining**

Another area where DeFi tokens have really innovated is liquidity mining. As
we mentioned in our latest edition of [dYdX Trader
Insights](https://integral.dydx.exchange/yield-farming/), liquidity mining is
a novel way for DeFi protocols to bootstrap liquidity and build a user base.
Liquidity mining is similar to Bitcoin mining in that protocol issues rewards
to supply siders who provide work, or in the case of DeFi, liquidity, which
makes the network more valuable for the demand side. It’s this incentive that
helps create the initial network effect.  

Even with liquidity mining being so new, it has been a success based on a
number of early launches. Compound saw massive growth in deposits after it
launched COMP liquidity mining, on the order of 400%. Similarly, Balancer’s
active users have skyrocketed since they announced BAL mining. Lastly, as has
been the main talking point in the crypto markets over the last week, Yearn
Finance saw astronomical growth in users and in total value locked on the back
of their YFI token launch. Total value locked in Yearn’s contracts have
ballooned from just under $10 million USD to nearly $300 million USD in the
span of a week,

![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/aSPd_8Kqa7NLrUwvrrq7CzfkovRpCsMzp2IW2BBS-
XdFAt2V_xpiPI6EJtmA-JTIBSvmU9bW1oFDWxkuwBE6uaDwvdzJ-
hY6_CARxKBXN14yj2n_8FOE8Adk_53L9ItS7LPM_84J)

While liquidity mining has clearly been an effective way to bootstrap growth,
a lot of the activity is self-referential, meaning it’s a lot of the existing
DeFi money shuffling between the best yield opportunities, and also using DeFi
protocols to obtain leverage. This doesn’t mean that liquidity mining is
unsustainable, but it’s important to acknowledge two realities. First, users
are locking up funds in these protocols for the most part because of the
yield. If the liquidity mining opportunity wasn't available, it’s much less
likely for protocols to have this much value locked in them, which also
affects their intrinsic value because they would be earning less fees.

Second, since a lot of these liquidity mining opportunities are denominated in
stablecoins, users are taking on leverage and using a portion of their rewards
to pay off interest — in principle, a good trade, but it creates a lot of
risk. The issue here is that in times of volatility, DeFi can be very fragile,
and this leverage can be unwound quickly. Unfortunately, liquidity mining will
likely grow leverage within the system, so it’s important to be cognizant of
the risk and discounting that when allocating capital to liquidity mining.

## Conclusion

DeFi token models are a huge step forward for the crypto ecosystem for a
number of reasons. First and foremost, DeFi tokens have intrinsic value via
the on-chain fees they earn from the protocol. This makes it much easier for
investors to coordinate around the value of these tokens rather than having to
price tokens based on market structure and sentiment. Secondly, DeFi tokens
are used as incentive mechanisms so that network participants act in ways that
reinforce a protocol’s network effects. In DeFi, tokens are mainly used to
incentivize liquidity, for which early contributors can earn very high yields.
Based on a number of new launches, these liquidity incentives seem to have a
very meaningful impact on network effects.

Luckily, we are still at the precipice of DeFi token experimentation. The
initial uses — fees, governance, re-collateralization — are strong uses of a
token, but we believe the stage is set for even more innovative uses. As DeFi
networks grow, new token use cases will be implemented to maintain many of the
network effects being created today.

* * *

If you’d like to get started with trading on our platform or have any other
questions, please join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/y6KsCsr) and follow us
on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/dydxprotocol).

[Trade](https://trade.dydx.exchange/perpetual/ETH-USD?trk-origin=Integral) on
dYdX now →

#### Subscribe to our newsletter

Get the latest posts delivered right to your inbox.

Your email address Subscribe

![Success!](https://integral.dydx.exchange/assets/images/success.png?v=c7f248bd02)

Now check your inbox and click the link to confirm your subscription.

Please enter a valid email address

Oops! There was an error sending the email, please try later.

[ ](https://integral.dydx.exchange/author/dydx/)

####  [dYdX Exchange](https://integral.dydx.exchange/author/dydx/)

dYdX is a decentralized exchange that supports spot, margin, and perpetuals
trading. The Integral is a blog covering Open Finance, Crypto Markets,
Bitcoin, Crypto Derivatives and dYdX Announcements.

No results for your search, please try with something else.

The Integral (C) 2022   •   Published with [Ghost](https://ghost.org)

[ ](https://t.me/joinchat/GBnMlBb9mQblQck2pThTgw) [
](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dydx/) [
](https://twitter.com/dydxprotocol)

[JavaScript license
information](https://integral.dydx.exchange/assets/html/javascript.html?v=c7f248bd02)

Great! You've successfully subscribed.

Great! Next, complete checkout for full access.

Welcome back! You've successfully signed in.

Success! Your account is fully activated, you now have access to all content.

