  

Until about 11,000 years ago all humans were foragers, living by hunting,
gathering, or fishing.  To study human evolution, and in particular the
interest of this author, the long evolution of
[collectibles](http://nakamotoinstitute.org/shelling-out/\]) \-- non-fungible
treasure and fungible money -- we must try to reconstruct the nature of our
ancestral forager cultures.  The ancestors of the vast majority of currently
living people lived in areas that, due to their relative ecological abundance,
have for centuries or millennia since been given over to agriculture.

One possible way gather evidence about our ancestral cultures is to study what
small fraction of their artifacts have been preserved by time and dug up by
archaeologists. Fortunately one of the desirable features of collectibles is
their durability, so that a disproportionate number of [such
artifacts](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/07/artifacts-of-wealth-
patterns-in_15.html) survive. Another way is to study recent observations that
travelers, missionaries, ethnologists, colonial officials, traders, and the
natives themselves made and recorded about forager cultures that existed in
recent  times (albeit not ancestral to the vast majority of today’s humans,
but “cousins”), before these cultures were too severely disrupted by the many
global waves of disease and migration since Columbus.

With extremely few exceptions,  forager cultures either did not undergo long-
term recorded observation by ethnologists before severe disruption to their
native institutions (e.g. most indigenous American tribes, Andaman Islanders,
Ainu, west coast Australian aborigines), or lived in nutrient-poor wastelands
beyond the main streams of human evolution (Kalahari desert, Australian
outback, Arctic, American and Canadian Plains, etc.), living in cultures far
more dispersed and mobile than is likely for the forager ancestors of most
current humans. Some may have been young refugee cultures fleeing the effects
of the Columbian Exchange (for example, the
[Pirahã](http://lchc.ucsd.edu/mca/Mail/xmcamail.2014-12.dir/pdf2Yb7JAO0ZG.pdf)may
have lost some important language features common to practically all other
human languages).

  

By the time of Columbus, the Americas were the only continents with foraging
cultures living in rich ecosystems – all other rich ecosystems had been
converted to agriculture (as had many, but far from all, in the Americas).
Most American foragers were soon disrupted beyond recognition by the massive
waves of post-Columbian diseases and immigration. The Yurok was a group of
indigenous American foragers with shared language and customs. They lived in a
rich dense ecosystem, yet furthest away from these biological and cultural
tsunamis that had overwhelmed the rest of the post-Columbian Americas. The
unique position of the Yurok and some of its neighboring language groups,
especially the [Hupa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hupa), and Karok or
[Karuk](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karuk), (who occupied areas further up
the Klamath River), and the
[Tolowa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tolowa#History)(who occupied the coast
further northern into Oregon and the lowest reaches of the Rogue River) can be
visualized by comparing the Yuroks’ territories (their population lived almost
entirely within a few miles of the Pacific Coast and the lower Klamath River)
at the end of the 19th century to the growing American railroad network.  The
Pacific Northwest tribes more famous to anthropology had already been severely
disrupted by the time they were studied by ethnologists.  With no ongoing
contacts with white immigrants until
[1849](http://www.yuroktribe.org/culture/culture2.htm), the Yurok and Hupa did
not experience substantial disruption “until much later than other tribal
groups in California and the United States”. Ethnologists such as Goddard and
Kroeber were able to interview Yurok and Hupa people who had living memories
of a minimally disturbed forager culture, including some who still practiced
much of the lifestyle.

  

[![](https://2.bp.blogspot.com/-DjOTTOTVU1s/WK_RVBlOz5I/AAAAAAAAAhk/tKxU2Tr2bEM_MP5aPHF3LzIns2NdX6GzACEw/s320/Yurok0.png)](https://2.bp.blogspot.com/-DjOTTOTVU1s/WK_RVBlOz5I/AAAAAAAAAhk/tKxU2Tr2bEM_MP5aPHF3LzIns2NdX6GzACEw/s1600/Yurok0.png)  
---  
  
_Railroads (red) within c. 300 miles of the Pacific coast of the United States
in 1890, vs. the extent of the Yurok tribe (blue) at that time. The Yurok were
among the last tribes in the rich ecosystems of the American Pacific coast to
succumb to the overwhelming influences of Western immigration.   As a result,
recorded observations of the Yurok are almost the only ones we have of a
forager people in a rich ecosystem in a nearly undisturbed and long-term
equilibrium state._  
  
The Pacific Coast of North America features uneven seasonal rain patterns that
make it difficult to support early forms of agriculture.  Thus, even in
nutrient-dense environments such as those populated by the Yurok , this region
was dominated by forager groups.

  

Even though the Yurok didn’t have agriculture they did have permanent
settlements due to the rich salmon fishing on the Klamath River. When they
finally encountered  the post-Columbian wave of disease, immigration, and
modernity in the mid 19thcentury (possibly also encountering some of the waves
of [disease](http://news.nationalpost.com/news/canada/everyone-was-dead-when-
europeans-first-came-to-b-c-they-confronted-the-aftermath-of-a-holocaust) that
hit the Pacific Coast as early as the 18th century), almost every technology
the Yurok and their indigenous neighbors had could probably have been
encountered in similar form along many Eurasian coasts before the dawn of
agriculture over ten thousand years ago, and perhaps even twenty or more
thousand years ago.  Yurok was one of the very few such cultures, quite
possibly similar to cultures that existed as long as tens of thousands of
years ago, whose old customs were observed and recorded before they converted
to modern law, money, and technology.

  

The closest 19th century railroad to the Yurok was hundreds of miles away, in
contrast to the more famous tribes of the Pacific Northwest, which were much
more disrupted by immigrants and their new laws before their customs were
carefully observed and recorded. The Yurok were one of the very few forager
cultures living in an abundant ecosystem, yet observed within recent memory of
a probably largely undisturbed long-term equilibrium cultural state, and the
recorded observations of this culture will almost surely remain among the very
few such records.

  

The Yurok lived in permanent but very small villages. In 1900 their population
was probably (per Kroeber) around 2,500 people living in over [50
](http://www.yuroktribe.org/culture/)such villages: a handful of families per
hamlet. This represented a population substantially reduced by immigrant-
introduced disease. Since this is estimated to have killed off
[75%](http://www.yuroktribe.org/culture/culture2.htm) of the Yurok population
in the second half of the nineteenth century – compared to the 95% death rate
of other indigenous Californians -- the original population may have been
around 10,000.

The plurality of the [Yurok diet](http://www.yuroktribe.org/culture/) was
salmon; they also caught steelhead trout, lamprey eel, sturgeon, and
candlefish on the lower Klamath River. Yurok also gathered acorns and
shellfish and hunted large game (elk, deer, and sea lion).  Salmon were caught
by nets, and during the height of salmon migration in temporary weirs. They
were finished off with long spears.

The aboriginal territory of the Yurok people encompassed riparian lands along
the lower forty miles of the Klamath River, from its confluence with the
Trinity River, its major tributary, to the Pacific Ocean. It also included
coastal lands from a few miles north of the river's month south to Trinidad. …
The river was their world. North, south, east, and west did not exist for
them. The only directions were upriver or downriver. [Lufkin]

  

Lacking animals or vehicles to ride, the Yurok often walked. But their main
way to travel long distance was by canoe, in both ocean-going and river-borne
forms. The two most strategic locations for the Yurok were Welkwaw, at the
mouth of Klamath River, and Qu’nek, at the convergence of the Klamath and
Trinity rivers.

What the Yurok could not eat during the spring and fall salmon migrations they
preserved by [open-pit smoking](http://visityurokcountry.com/pauls-famous-
smoked-salmon-jerky/).  Food and other goods were stored in the many baskets
weaved by Yurok women. Salmon smoking, combined with the other abundant food
sources of the lower Klamath River and ocean environments, made their diet
reliable year-round, despite the boom-or-bust nature of the salmon migrations,
and let them settle in permanent and relatively dense habitations, in contrast
to inland foragers, recently surviving examples of which lived in far sparser
populations and generally moved once to several times per year to follow game.

The Yurok had no state, government officials, chiefs, or even clan heads.
Among the highest income earners were shamans, usually elderly females, a role
that might be best described in modern cultural terms as combining the role of
priest with that of medical doctor. On the other hand, most important property
was owned by and most important wealth transfers decide by individual adult
males, generally not by females, no matter their earnings, nor by groups.
These individuals sometimes owned fractional shares in some kinds of economic
property, for example in customarily defined spots for salmon fishing.

Inheritances, and the minority of claims that were not simply individual, were
distributed among variable groups of males defined by their kin distances to
the deceased or the bride.  There were no fixed kin groups; instead “a group
of kinsmen shades out … and integrates with others.” (Kroeber p392). Exogamy
and endogamy were also defined this way, with respect to the variable group
that was one’s particular relative kin, rather than with respect to fixed
villages, clans, or any other such groups sometimes found in other forager
cultures.

Forager societies in general, and indigenous Californian societies in
particular, were usually quite violent, [particularly where populations were
more
dense](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0278416513000603).
Next only to environmental nutrient density, violence was probably the main
barrier to [social
scalability](https://unenumerated.blogspot.jp/2017/02/money-blockchains-and-
social-scalability.html)among foragers. Reducing and mitigating this violence
so as to allow family and economic institutions to work was a predominant
function of indigenous social institutions. Violence took every form from one-
on-one to small-scale, gang-like wars, typically between small kin groups.

A leaderless and policeless social order like that of the Yurok depended more
on custom and supernatural sanctions than modern legal systems do.  Yurok law
contained a multitude of specific and negative taboos. The common expectation
that all sides should follow customary rules and, where appropriate, customary
property valuations and exchange rates, reduced negotiations and arguments,
and thus reduced disputes, and thus reduced the violence that was often
engendered by disputes.  “Both marriage and [injury compensation] were
definite, commercial, negotiated transactions ; all property possessed a value
fixed by custom, or by previous changes of ownership, but negotiations were a
cause of much dispute, each side claiming as much as it dared, and usually
ending in compromise.” (Quiggins p296)

The following kin had priority for inheritance of the largest pieces of
property:

1.     sons, but if none

2.     brothers, but if  none

3.     brothers’ sons

Property rights included incorporeal property, often bundled with corporeal
property.  For example dance outfits, often made at great labor out of deer-
skin and rare woodpecker scalps, demonstrating wealth as splendor and usually
passed on as heirlooms,  always came bundled with prayers and spells that only
the owner of a particular dance outfit could use.

“[E]very invasion of privilege or property must be explicitly compensated”.
Compensation usually arrived at by “negotiation of the interested parties and
their representatives, and by them alone” – no chiefs etc., just strong custom
and respect for agreements. “Revenge causes two liabilities [to be compensated
in money and treasure] where one lay before.” (Kroeber p390-2).

For the purposes of customary exchanges, bridewealth, and compensation for
injuries, the value of property was “either fixed by custom, or can be valued
by consideration of payments made for it in previous changes of ownership.”
(Kroeber p392)  Yurok law was “almost fully resolvable into claims for
property”.  When faced with a judgment or agreement ending a vendetta,  if a
defendant could not cough up the specified value in property, generally in the
form of _dentalia_ money and non-fungible treasure, he or she became a slave
of the plaintiff (the victim or a deceased victim’s next-of-kin).

Such debt slavery was the only way a slave could be created among the Yurok,
since they took no male prisoners in the small-scale, gang-like warfare in
which ad-hoc kin groups and allies sometimes engaged when disputes remained
unsettled. They either adopted or returned the women and children prisoners as
part of peace-making settlement (which indeed was not qualitatively
distinguished from the settling of smaller instances of violence).

If a defendant in a dispute refused to either pay the agreed or adjudged
compensation or submit to debt slavery, vendetta remained. The main outcomes
of disputes were either continued violence, debt slavery, or (the most usual
case) a final transfer of wealth that sufficiently satisfied the disputants,
their kin groups, and third parties to bring an end to vendetta.

Yurok law was “almost fully resolvable into claims for property” (Kroeber
1925).  If a defendant could not pay, he or she became a slave of the
defendant or of a deceased defendant’s next-of-kin.

The Yurok had at least two common kinds of procedures for settling disputes.
The first was direct negotiations between the disputants, usually including
kin or allies. The second was a procedure whereby each side picked two jurors,
who also acted as intermediaries between the two parties, who would not meet.
The first method was more dangerous, as arguments often escalated into
violence.:

[![](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-my48CZM-
QZM/WK_SaG8JGfI/AAAAAAAAAho/1aSjXo3x7KkN9aljdAmyYSycx7f80dwLQCLcB/s320/Yurok1.png)](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-my48CZM-
QZM/WK_SaG8JGfI/AAAAAAAAAho/1aSjXo3x7KkN9aljdAmyYSycx7f80dwLQCLcB/s1600/Yurok1.png)  
---  
  
_  (Quiggin p294)_  
  
Among the Yurok…as typical among less specifically organized people, the
‘court’ was less definite, but it was nevertheless there. An aggrieved Yurok
who felt he had a legitimate claim engaged the legal services of two
nonrelatives from a community other than his own. The defendant then did
likewise. These men were called ‘crossers’; they crossed back and forth
between the litigants.  The principals to the dispute ordinarily did not face
each other during the course of the action.  After hearing all that each side
had to offer in evidence and pleading as to the relevant substantive law, the
crossers rendered a decision for damages according to a well-established scale
that was known to all. For their footwork and efforts each [crosser] received
a piece of shell currency called a ‘moccasin’.  (Hoebel p25, citing Kroeber,
‘Yurok Law’, _22 nd Intl. Congress of Americanists_, 1924, p 551).

_Dentalia_ ([ _terk-term_](http://www.yuroktribe.org/culture/) in the Yurok
language) was a fungible form of collectible – essentially money, and called
such both by early Western observers and by the Yurok themselves when they
translated their language into English.  Most of the economic and legal
functions of _dentalia_ shells had been by the 20th century either take over
by dollars or  obsoleted by the move to the Western legal system and the
abolition of shamans and bridewealth.

  

_Dentalia_ shells were counted individually or in groups of five.The value of
a _dentalium_ shell was judged by its length, longer shells being
disproportionately rarer. The length of _dentalia_ shells judged with respect
to length between finger creases, or by tattoos which themselves had been made
by shells of standard length. (p396).  The technique was the same among the
neighboring Hupa:

  

As all hands and arms are not of the same length it was necessary for the man
on reaching maturity to establish the values of the creases on his hand by
comparison with money of known length. He had a set of lines tattooed on the
inside of the forearm. These lines indicated the length of 5 shells of the
several standards. This was the principal means of estimating money. The first
5 on the string were measured by holding the tip of the first shell at the
thumbnail and drawing the string along the arm and noting the tattooed mark
reached by the butt of the fifth shell (Goddard, 1903, p. 446).

[![](https://3.bp.blogspot.com/-oLWheIzoGAQ/WK_RXqq3-BI/AAAAAAAAAhk/v9aEhYbBv_kOJ_2ZIxzIpekvGHO0zgpiQCEw/s320/Yurok2.png)](https://3.bp.blogspot.com/-oLWheIzoGAQ/WK_RXqq3-BI/AAAAAAAAAhk/v9aEhYbBv_kOJ_2ZIxzIpekvGHO0zgpiQCEw/s1600/Yurok2.png)  
---  
  
_Mr. McCann [a Hupa, a language group upstream of the Yurok, with many similar
customs] “measuring_ dentalium _shell money against tattoo marks on his
forearm. Photograph by Pliny E. Goddard, Hoopa, Humboldt County, 1901
(15-2947).”_ _ Credit: Hearst Museum Berkeley.
[[Source](https://cardinalguzman.wordpress.com/2013/03/31/the-history-of-
tattoo-part-3-the-indians/)]_  
  
  

Collectibles served as money (fungible, divisible, and transferable wealth) or
as treasure (displayable and transferable wealth). The chief collectibles of
the Yurok were:

  

[![](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-Ojin_6nRHpE/WK_RYKwjFDI/AAAAAAAAAhk/lR8prIWoD-
EMCF0tuHFwOTJpPKDlNry4ACEw/s200/Yurok3.png)](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-Ojin_6nRHpE/WK_RYKwjFDI/AAAAAAAAAhk/lR8prIWoD-
EMCF0tuHFwOTJpPKDlNry4ACEw/s1600/Yurok3.png)  
---  
  
_A splendid headdress featuring woodpecker scalps, from the nearby Tolowa
people, 1924.
[[Source](https://www.washington.edu/cartah/projects/tolowa/pict12.html)]_  
  
·      Size-ranked _dentalia_ constituted the most common media for satisfying
obligations, a standard counter-performance for exchanges, and as a standard
of value for determining the total value of a wealth transfer, usually from
custom, sometimes by negotiation, or a combination thereof, for a given
situation. _Dentalia_ made up a substantial part of nearly all, but usually
less than half of most, of the value of the largest wealth transfers (shaman
or doctor fees, injury compensation, and bridewealth).

·      Woodpecker scalps came in two sizes, exchanged at a 6:1 ratio.  Besides
a store of value they were used to add splendor to dance headdresses and
regalia.

·      Deerskins (used in dances; the very rare albino pelt was quite
valuable)

·      Large blades of obsidian or flint (the larger ones, either by being
rarer or harder to make, could be quite valuable)  

[![](https://3.bp.blogspot.com/-G3E9HIElIRk/WK_TaVw_PmI/AAAAAAAAAhw/qVd99cjheb4EWro9miSFLIrhRWhAY87lwCLcB/s320/Yurok4.png)](https://3.bp.blogspot.com/-G3E9HIElIRk/WK_TaVw_PmI/AAAAAAAAAhw/qVd99cjheb4EWro9miSFLIrhRWhAY87lwCLcB/s1600/Yurok4.png)  
---  
  
_Yurok or Karuk obsidian treasure blades displayed at the Denver Art Museum.
The Yurok and their neighbors, like most other indigenous American tribes,
used obsidian in practical axes, knives, and arrowheads. But they also knapped
blades out of rare large pieces of obsidian and used them for wealth transfer
and ceremonial display
[[Source](https://stephenbodio.blogspot.com/2011/10/denver-art-museum-
california-indian.html)]_  
  
  
[![](https://2.bp.blogspot.com/-y5wrvNbEq1o/WK_Tb8CJHrI/AAAAAAAAAh0/XjZxiJ03DHMCn3lKz3xDKC3evB4N_HcWQCLcB/s320/Yurok5.png)](https://2.bp.blogspot.com/-y5wrvNbEq1o/WK_Tb8CJHrI/AAAAAAAAAh0/XjZxiJ03DHMCn3lKz3xDKC3evB4N_HcWQCLcB/s1600/Yurok5.png)  
---  
  
_Hupa in dance regalia made out of albino deerskin, which was very rare, and
thus valuable as a collectible.
[[Source](http://www.edwardscurtis.com/Small%20Prints/Volume%2013/default.htm)].
Ethnographers themselves followed the collecting instinct: most ethnographic
evidence was selected in favor of the rare and alien and against the regular
and normal. _  
  
An unsettled vendetta could result in a disproportionate response leading to
war.  Yurok customary law made “no distinction … between murder and war.”
(Kroeber p420).  War deaths and murder were settled by the same injury
compensation rules (blood money).  Yurok peace settlements involved the same
settlement dances and kinds of wealth transfer (albeit usually on a larger
scale) as individual homicide cases,.  They did not include tribute, which
meant the victors often had to pay more compensation than the vanquished.
Krober recounts one such war (p422):

[![](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-lTuhOg6rMxA/WK_UzDvC3yI/AAAAAAAAAiA/o9xomLgGRf0RB2H6nrIM5S_7WBXzGeYYACLcB/s320/Yurok6.png)](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-lTuhOg6rMxA/WK_UzDvC3yI/AAAAAAAAAiA/o9xomLgGRf0RB2H6nrIM5S_7WBXzGeYYACLcB/s1600/Yurok6.png)  
---  
  
_Hupa arrows for fighting and hunting
[[Source](https://anthromuseum.missouri.edu/grayson/americasarchery/1994-0897-0691-0675hupa-
arrows.shtml)]_  
  
“A feud of some note took place between [the villages of] Sregon and Ko’otep.
When the leading man [richest man and leader of this war party – not a
permanent official] lost his brother by sickness, he accused an inhabitant of
[one of the small villages of] Wohtek or Wohkero of having poisoned him. The
suspect was soon killed from ambush. After this a Sregon man was attacked and
killed at Ko’otep, which is only a short distance from Wohtek. The act
involved the people of Ko’otep, which was at that time a large village. After
a time, settlement was proposed, and the two parties met at an open place
below Sregon to conclude the negotiations. Each side was ready to make a
customary [settlement] dance, when some one fired a shot. In the fight that
ensued, a [village of] Meta ally of the Sregon people was killed. The headman
of Sregon now went down river with his friends and lay in wait at an
overhanging and bush bank near Serper, where the current takes boats close in
to shore. When a canoe of his foes came up, he attacked it and killed four of
the inmates. The feud went on for some time. Sregon, never a large village,
fought, with only some aid from Meta, against Ko’otep, Wohtek, and Pekwan, but
lost only 3 men to 10 of their opponents’.  The headman at Sregon was
sufficiently wealthy, when settlement came, to pay for all the satisfaction he
had earned [i.e. the blood money for the 11 men killed by his side]. He once
said with reference to this experience in this and other feuds, that open
battles often took place without anyone being killed. Somehow men are hard to
hit, he philosophized: arrows have a way of flying past a human being when a
hunter is sure to strike a deer at the same distance….”  (Kroeber p422)

Because _dentalia_ was the main way to avoid violence and enslavement, win the
best bride, and pay for spiritual and medical services, the Yurok in
consequence had a strong desire to acquire _dentalia:_

They are firmly convinced that persistent thinking about money will bring it.
Particularly is this believed to be true while one is engaged in any sweat-
house occupation. Asaman climbs the hill to gather sweat-house wood always a
meritorious practice, ... he puts his mind on _dentalia_. He makes himself see
them along the trail or hanging from fir trees eating the leaves. ... In the
sweat-house he looks until he sees more money-shells perhaps peering at him
through the door. When he goes down to the river he stares into it and at last
may discern a shell as large as a salmon, with gills Working like those of a
fish. . . . Saying a thing with sufficient intensity and frequency was a means
towards bringing it about. A man often kept calling ' I want to be rich ' or '
I wish _dentalia_ ' perhaps weeping at the same time…(Kroeber 1925, p 41)

[![](https://3.bp.blogspot.com/-33bYU8K7eYE/WK_U11ZIRmI/AAAAAAAAAiY/FO5g2DsgWFM1kStRypGgwuBrFkbqeudvQCEw/s320/Yurok8.png)](https://3.bp.blogspot.com/-33bYU8K7eYE/WK_U11ZIRmI/AAAAAAAAAiY/FO5g2DsgWFM1kStRypGgwuBrFkbqeudvQCEw/s1600/Yurok8.png)  
---  
  
_Tolowa man measuring a_ dentalia _shell string “thumb to shoulder”.
[[Source](http://www.edwardscurtis.com/Small%20Prints/Volume%2013/default.htm)]_  
  
_Length of shell (estimated by length between finger creases or tattoo marks
that had been measured from standard shells; translated into English inches)_

|

_Shells to a string of “thumb to shoulder” length (about 27 and ½ inches)_

|

_Rough typical value of shell in c. 2010s U.S. dollars, based on c. 1900
dollar value in trade with white immigrants and internal exchange after
incorporation of U.S. money_  
  
---|---|---  
  
_2 ½_

|  

_11_

|

_$150_  
  
_2 5/16_

|

_12_

|

_$90_  
  
_2 1/8_

|

_13_

|

_$30_  
  
_2_

|

_14_

|

_$15_  
  
_1 7/8_

|

_15_

|

_$7.50_  
  
  

The _dentalia_ used by the Yurok and neighboring tribes came via repeated
transfers from distant parts north.  _Dentalia_ are found on the Pacific Coast
above the 49th parallel.  In the waters off the Vancouver and Queen Charlotte
Islands, indigenous peoples dredged live shells from a sea bottom tens of feet
below the surface.  “They let down long poles to which are attached pieces of
wood fitted with spikes or teeth, between which the shells become fixed.”
Shells harvested live have, even many decades after having been killed, a
different color than the dead _dentalia_ shells that commonly wash up on many
Pacific Coast beaches. The former were valued as scarce collectibles; the
latter were not, and were not used by the Yurok or their neighbors.(Quiggins,
p293-4)

  
[![](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-hHqCTSgvBqA/WK_Uz-W8SGI/AAAAAAAAAiY/-QDIfbXVPkETkLz0hZifcetI8U0qCEtiQCEw/s320/Yurok7.png)](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-hHqCTSgvBqA/WK_Uz-W8SGI/AAAAAAAAAiY/-QDIfbXVPkETkLz0hZifcetI8U0qCEtiQCEw/s1600/Yurok7.png)  
---  
  
Dentalia _shell string and Northern California elk antler purse for holding
it. Probably Hupa. 1800s.
[[Source](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/127930445636349594/)] ___  
  
Yurok cosmology – their view of the shape and size of the universe -- was
largely bounded by their personal experience and defined by the topology of
the Pacific Coast and the flow of the lower Klamath River and its immediate
tributaries. _Dentalia_ were obtained from transfers down the Pacific Coast,
from tribes further north, including trade in various treasures and slaves
with some Pacific Northwest tribes. “They speak in their traditions of …
strange but enviable peoples … who suck the flesh out of the [ _dentalia_ ]
univalves.”  (Kroeber p394)  As _dentalia_ percolated down the coast, their
scarcity rose and their exchange rate strengthened. “In Northern Oregon or
among the Yurok a slave was worth 1 string. Among the Nootka [who harvested
the live _dentalia_ off Vancouver Island], it took 5 fathoms to buy a slave.”
(Einzig p173).

[![](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-7ZDhpmWVfk4/WK_U2aih6SI/AAAAAAAAAiY/ZtdF_K1D3p0oMfRArbY2buXiqRx5lurtACEw/s320/Yurok9.png)](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-7ZDhpmWVfk4/WK_U2aih6SI/AAAAAAAAAiY/ZtdF_K1D3p0oMfRArbY2buXiqRx5lurtACEw/s1600/Yurok9.png)  
---  
  
_Primary (net) directions of_ dentalia _shell transfers along the two
topological axes of the Yurok: south along the Pacific coast and up the
Klamath River system.   The source of _dentalia _used by the Yurok as a
fungible media for the satisfaction of obligations was far from local; the
main source was probably the Vancouver Islands in British Columbia. (The long
distance   of users from the source ensured unforgeable costliness, i.e. a
reliably and securely constrained supply curve, a pattern repeated with many
other instances of shell and stone money)._  
  
As with the [kula ring](https://archive.fo/TEF3E) of Melanesia, the net flow
of specific transfers of _dentalia_ shells followed a geographical network, in
this case from a source in the distant northern Pacific Coast to sinks further
south along that coast and up the Klamath River.  Many of the traditional
stories of the Yurok involve _dentalia_.  At least one such story follows the
journey of two characters along this network -- down the Pacific coast and up
the Klamath River -- and how they dispense of their shells. Their _dentalia_
are in demand in some [hamlets] (or the hamlets are friendly, and allow them
to trade), and not in other ones (or they are hostile). Various payments do or
do not occur as our characters take follow the main flow of dentalia up the
Klamath River.  (Kroeber p397)

Two other marine shells were often used as fungible money among the indigenous
peoples of western North America, even well inland, but not among coastal
peoples such as the Yurok:

[![](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-cahTQXttTXI/WK_fXdIW0qI/AAAAAAAAAiw/A1R1la-
E_7EqoYyc6fMqAYTXMAVkQ1ewwCLcB/s320/Hupa%2BFemale%2BShaman.jpg)](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-cahTQXttTXI/WK_fXdIW0qI/AAAAAAAAAiw/A1R1la-
E_7EqoYyc6fMqAYTXMAVkQ1ewwCLcB/s1600/Hupa%2BFemale%2BShaman.jpg)  
---  
  
_Hupa shaman_
_[[Source](http://www.edwardscurtis.com/Small%20Prints/Volume%2013/default.htm)]._  
  
Other shells used as currency in the Western States included _olivella_ and
pieces of [the abalone shell] _haliotis._ The latter was in various
denominations according to its size... The value of pieces of the same size
varied according to the degree of their brilliance. There was a time when one
single shell bought a horse in New Mexico. (Einzig p173)

_Haliotis_ shells “were traded all down the West Coast from Alaska to Mexico”
(Quiggin p299)  But among the Yurok, the _haliotis_ shell was common enough in
the local environment that it was only used whole, as a pendant with minor
treasure value. _Olivella_ was also locally abundant and used liberally as an
ornament, but not as substantial money or treasure. With both fungible money
and non-fungible treasure, we again see the signature economics of
collectibles at work: the unique interplay between supply and demand, in
particular the demand for scarce supply, which distinguishes a collectible
from a normal commodity.  

_The main kinds of Yurok obligations or deals, and the wealth transfers that
satisfied them.   _

**Obligation**

|

**Type of wealth**  
  
---|---  
  
Shaman fees

|

Any kind of collectible treasure or the occasional useful good of great value
(e.g. canoe), almost always including some _dentalium_ but usually for no more
than half the value. Most common treasures used in these larger wealth
transfers were woodpecker scalps and large stone blades.  
  
Injury compensation

|

Similar variety and frequency of items as for shaman fees  
  
Bridewealth

Recipient priority (p401):

1.     father of bride

2.     brothers of bride

3.     uncles of bride

|

Similar variety and frequency of items as for shaman fees (Quiggin p296)
“There was no fixed price, for that depended on the rank and wealth of the
individual, and social status depended on the amount paid.” (Kroeber, 1925,
pp. 21-2). Sometimes there were dowry counter-payments, e.g. if the bride’s
father was particularly wealthy.

  
  
  
Divorce (p402-3)

      any time at a woman’s choice, as long as her kin repays

      man must show just cause to convince her kin to repay

|

Repayment depended on fertility:

She died early => partial repayment

Ongoing infertility => partial repayment

Each child she bore => smaller repayment upon divorce, death, or subsequent
infertility.  
  
Exchange

|

Usually _dentalia_ could be used to purchase a wide variety of treasures,
useful goods, fishing rights, hunting rights,  incorporeal rights (e.g. rights
to say prayers and cast spells), etc. at either customary or negotiated
exchange rates  
  
  

_Dentalia,_ unlike treasure, was fungible and divisible.  In consequence the
values of individual pieces of treasure, expressed as the Yurok did in terms
of their customary or most recent exchange rate into _dentalia,_ could in
principle have been counted, summed, and subtracted to compute a net
settlement in satisfaction of two opposing obligations. In practice, the
indigenous Californians lacked calculating devices for accomplishing this –
they had neither any sort of abacus nor methods of algorithmic writing used in
Eurasia. Because of such difficulties in computing and thus comparing the
values of money and treasure, bilateral large payments (such as bridewealth
and dowry in a marriage, or bilateral damages incurred in a war) that included
such treasures, as they almost always did, were not net settled, but instead
each side paid in full.  If two men married each others’ sisters, each paid
the full bridewealth to the other (Quiggin p296).

Property with concrete utility was also sometimes used as part of large wealth
transfers, albeit far less commonly than collectibles:

·      Fishing rights

·      Hunting rights

·      Canoes (cross-river ferries, up-and-down-river polling-and-paddling,
ocean-going paddling)

·      Slaves

About five percent of the population were slaves. They “entered into this
condition solely through debt,  never through violence” – adult male prisoners
of war were killed, with women and children returned upon settlement or
adopted.  The debt was almost always incurred in a dispute settlement – if the
adjudged party could not pay the amount in question, whether through
_dentalia_ or other treasures or property, they became the slave of the
adjudged victim.

Fishing sites were (and to a great extent still are) considered privately
owned and transferable.  Fishing rights could be loaned for a portion of the
harvest. Owners of the best sites were envied “aristocrats”. (Lufkin).
“Prolific eddies” were defined as discrete fishing spots by custom, which
generally forbade the establishment of new locations, since these would
usually degrade the fishing in current locations. A fishing spot could be
individually owned, but since it usually generated more food than a family
could eat, the spot was more often jointly owned in fractional shares by
several men, who then used the spot in rotation.  The shares were inheritable
and sellable as individual property.  (Kroeber p405)

  

[![](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-mJbxc1JvzV8/WK_U0npLvmI/AAAAAAAAAiY/bEIr9uhO490eCREGxbw8tG9DcCNW8kTLACEw/s320/Yurok10.png)](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-mJbxc1JvzV8/WK_U0npLvmI/AAAAAAAAAiY/bEIr9uhO490eCREGxbw8tG9DcCNW8kTLACEw/s1600/Yurok10.png)  
---  
  
_A Yurok man fishes for salmon with a plunge net at pame-kya’-ra-m, a “usual
and accustomed” fishing site on the Klamath River, California, before 1898.
[[Source](http://americanhistory.si.edu/onthewater/exhibition/3_2.html)_ _]_  
  
If a piece of land was less than a mile or so from rivers or coast (the main
sources of the Yuroks’ food) and good hunting, it was likely to be privately
owned, meaning one needed the permission of the owner to hunt on it; otherwise
it was common and permissionless. Deer and elk were the principle prey –
smaller game were scarce or otherwise not worth the trouble.  Special rights
pertained to taking sea lions on the coast. The only punishable kind of
trespassing was poaching, and poachers could be shot without incurring a blood
money liability. (Kroeber p406).

A case of positive claim-rights to sea-lion flippers described by Hoebel
illustrates a cycle of broken-down negotiations and revenge, culminating in a
property settlement that satisfied principles and kin sufficiently to
terminate the vendetta.  A certain M had a generally acknowledged hereditary
claim to have handed over to him the flippers of all sea-lions taken on a
certain 4-mile section of beach.  (Apparently sea lion flippers can be made
into boots that grip slippery surfaces,  fishing net floats, or glue, and at
least farther up the Pacific Coast flipper meat was widely considered to be
great delicacy: [[Source](http://alaska-native-news.com/alutiiq-word-of-the-
week-may-18-2014-10842)]).  A certain L allegedly killed sea-lions on the
beach but kept their flippers in violation of M’s claim. A series of attack,
claim, counter-attack, etc., including murder of L by M, eventually led to a
settlement with L’s next-of-kin receiving the sea lion flipper claim rights
that started the dispute. (Hoebel p54-55)

[![](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-4ODkwb18XOY/WK_XOB38EQI/AAAAAAAAAig/7TJBaJ52CQA9DnW8AJvvs1iOZSKLwrSowCLcB/s320/Yurok11.png)](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-4ODkwb18XOY/WK_XOB38EQI/AAAAAAAAAig/7TJBaJ52CQA9DnW8AJvvs1iOZSKLwrSowCLcB/s1600/Yurok11.png)  
---  
  
_Yurok canoe on the Trinity River, c. 1923.
[[Source](http://americanhistory.si.edu/onthewater/exhibition/3_2.html)]_  
  
 **Conclusion**

The ability to transfer wealth was crucial during many events critical to the
Darwinian fitness of evolving humans, especially death (inheritance), dispute
settlement, and marriage.  With the Yurok and their neighboring tribes, this
wealth typically took the form of collectibles that lacked concrete use –
either non-fungible treasure, which came in a variety of forms, or fungible
money in the form of _dentalia_ shells and strings of same.  The use of money
and treasure in some transactions (e.g. for use mitigating violence) made it
available and encouraged its use in others (e.g. trade).

Collectibles involved a unique interplay of supply and demand whereby demand
was based in large part on a predictable constraint in supply.  A common way
cultures met this constraint was by using collectibles that originated in a
very distant region and percolated into the local region via a relatively
constant stream of transfers (which could be long-distance trade, but could
also be a series of transfers themselves as injury compensation or
bridewealth). Collectibles flowed from relatively plentiful at the origin to
relatively scarce in the region they are used as collectibles. For fungible
and divisible collectibles such as _dentalia_ shells, they worked best as
money where a geographical balance was struck between sufficient scarcity for
value density and sufficient abundance to allow for its divisibility and
fungibility. Such a collectible could be put to best use as money in a
“Goldilocks region” in between where it was overly scarce and where it was
overly abundant.

 **References**

[“Yurok Culture: History”](http://www.yuroktribe.org/culture/)

Lufkin, Alan, editor.  _California's Salmon and Steelhead: The Struggle to
Restore an Imperiled Resource,_ chapter 2. _ _ Berkeley:  University of
California Press,  c1991.
[[Link](http://ark.cdlib.org/ark:/13030/ft209nb0qn/%20%20via%20http://publishing.cdlib.org/ucpressebooks/view?docId=ft209nb0qn;chunk.id=d0e1553;doc.view=print)]

E. Adamson Hoebel, _The Law of Primitive Man,_ Atheneum / Harvard University
Press 1954

Kroeber, A.L., _Handbook of the Indians of California,_ Chapter 2, as
reprinted in R.F. Heizer and M.A. Whipple eds., _The California Indians: A
Sourcebook,_ University of California Press 1971

Kroeber, A. L _., Handbook of the Indians of California_ , Bureau Amer. Ethn.
Bull., 1925, as cited in Quiggins op. cit.

  

Goddard,P.E., _Life and Culture of the Hupa_ , The University Press, 1903.
[[Link](https://ia800204.us.archive.org/29/items/cu31924104079433/cu31924104079433.pdf)]

A. Hingston Quiggin, _A Survey of Primitive Money,_ Methuen & Co. Ltd. 1949

Paul Einzig, _Primtive Money, 2 nd ed.,  _Pergamon Press 1966.

  

