[Go Back](../../)[Fleek.co](https://Fleek.co)

# Constant Links in IPFS - IPNS vs DNSLink VS ENS

![](https://fleek-team-bucket.storage.fleek.co/thumbnails-blog/immutable-
ipfs.png)

We tend to take constant links for granted when navigating the web. For
example, if I invited you to visit Fleek’s homepage, I’d give you the
following link: <https://fleek.co>. This link never changes, that is why I can
share it with you.

In this article, we will explain how constant links, such as the one above,
are achieved in IPFS.

# Constant vs Changing Links

[ ![house](../../static/04918d87cf7108d4e6b9a1ae6b1f544a/6a068/house.jpg)
](../../static/04918d87cf7108d4e6b9a1ae6b1f544a/eea4a/house.jpg) _Constant
links are like the address of a house_

Content in IPFS is addressed by its content in the form of a hash. This is of
great importance for the hosting on the IPFS site.

For example, here is a current hash of the Fleek homepage:
`QmZQV5YXKakh7aKqSk3MVARNu8eaxws9KNc6EeStQTYt5w`.

What would happen if we made an update, such as fixing a typo or adding more
content? The hash would be different!

For example, it could become:
`QmRW3V9znzFW9M5FYbitSEvd5dQrPWGvPvgQD6LM22Tv8e`.

If I wanted to share the Fleek homepage with you, it would be impossible to
point to a single link because the hash would change anytime I updated the
site. That is because we want an _constant_ link to share the site, even
though the content of the website itself is _changing_.

This constant vs changing distinction is comparable to the address of a house.
If I invited you to a party at my house, I would share with you an _constant
link_ in the form of the address of the house. However, the content of the
house is _changing_ , because we do not know which guest has arrived yet!

So how to we create constant link to content hosted on IPFS, if a new hash is
created everytime an update occurs?

There are three main solutions to this problem.

## 1\. IPNS: Constant Hashes

IPNS links use public-key crytography to produce a hash that links to an IPFS
hash. They can look just like IPFS hashes:
`QmSrPmbaUKA3ZodhzPWZnpFgcPMFWF4QsxXbkWfEptTBJd`.

They are hashes of a public key. The owner of that public key can sign a piece
of information containing the IPNS hash linking to the most recent version of
a website.

That means that if I shared the IPNS hash, I could direct users to the same
website and it would still allow me to make updates.

The drawback of this solution, however, is that IPNS hashes are not human-
readable.

That’s where the second solution comes in.

## 2\. DNSLink: Linking DNS and IPFS

DnsLink acts as a sort of bridge between a traditional domain name and the
IPFS ecosystem.

Simply put, it stores a link to an IPFS hash in the DNS records of a domain.

IPFS searches for a DNSLink when a provided IPNS hash is not a valid hash or
simply not found. In that case, IPFS will search for the DNS record associated
with the domain to see if it contains a DNSLink record.

This is a solution Fleek uses profusely. For example, here’s the fleek.co
through the DNSLink <https://ipfs.io/ipns/fleek.co/>

This solution, however, relies on centralized DNS servers so it does not fully
realize the vision of a fully decentralized web intended by IPFS.

That’s where the last solution comes in.

## 3\. ENS: The Blockchain Solution

We had IPNS, which was decentralized, but not human-readable. We had DNSLink,
which was human-readable, but not fully decentralized.

ENS is both decentralized AND human-readable.

That’s because ENS, short for Ethereum Name Service, is a decentralized name
record living on the Ethereum blockchain, the most popular smart contract
platform. There we can associate a human-readable link to an IPFS hash.

These domains look just like normal domains, except that they end in `.eth`
instead of `.com`.

ENS domains are very cool, but also very new. To access such sites, you will
need a browser such as Brave or the Metamask Extension.

Of course, at Fleek, we fully support ENS for ultimate decentralization!

Here’s our site on ENS: [fleekhq.eth/](https://fleekhq.eth/)!

# Set a Site on Fleek!

Fleek harnesses all theses technologies in an easy-to-use manner. Host your
site on Fleek and join the new decentralized web!

  * [Sign up](https://app.fleek.co) to try for yourself
  * [Join](https://slack.fleek.co/) our Community Chat
  * [Follow](https://twitter.com/FleekHQ) us on Twitter
  * [Read](https://docs.fleek.co/) out our Tech Docs
  * Contact us at support@fleek.co

Published 4 May 2020

  * [General](../../tag/general/)
  * [Informational](../../tag/informational/)

Fleek is all you need to build websites and apps on the new Open Web:
permissionless, trustless, censorship resistant, and free of centralized
gatekeepers. Welcome to the new internet.[](https://www.twitter.com/FleekHQ)

