[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/35a0f7140471&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Crypto
Punks](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*RuBSr8PcbcSSimYWrpQsHA.png)](https://medium.com/crypto-
punks?source=post_page-----35a0f7140471--------------------------------)

Published in

[Crypto Punks

](https://medium.com/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
35a0f7140471--------------------------------)

[![Sam
Aiken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/0*KLR9G_nzD3rK1p1w.jpg)](/@SamAI_Software?source=post_page
-----35a0f7140471--------------------------------)

[Sam Aiken](/@SamAI_Software?source=post_page-----
35a0f7140471--------------------------------)

Follow

Jun 25, 2020

·

15 min read

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*m9csZP7lQG6ZLZfN1cOpDA.jpeg)

[Image](https://unsplash.com/photos/JqWanio3sZo): [Evgeni
Tcherkasski](https://unsplash.com/@evgenit)

# Coronavirus geopolitics: how frontline countries dodged two pandemic waves?

## Taiwan, Hong Kong, Vietnam, and South Korea acted contrarily to the WHO
recommendations, and successfully contained two coronavirus waves without
lockdowns.

  * Frontline countries that didn’t join China’s Belt and Road Initiative and historically had very complicated relationship with China, were able to implement drastic measures from the start of the outbreak.
  * Countries that have strong political and economic ties to China were limited in their ability to implement strict measures in order to protect their own population from the coronavirus.
  * Countries that followed the WHO travel recommendations have failed to react early enough to stop imported cases.
  * Due to early measures taken to contain the virus, many frontline countries didn’t need strict lockdowns.

 _Disclosure: This article is brought to you by a privacy-oriented peer-to-
peer cryptocurrency marketplace_[ **
_LocalCryptos_**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra) _, so you can read
the content for free without Medium’s paywall or Google ads. I also own BTC,
ETH, BCH, and other cryptos._

# Intro

After the coronavirus escaped China, crashed the crypto market and verged us
into the global recession, I’ve decided to write a series of articles about
the coronavirus and its global impact.

In the previous two articles we’ve debunked certain misconceptions about the
[death rate](/crypto-punks/debunking-coronavirus-myths-whats-wrong-with-the-
death-rate-c8c7bb1dc932), and explained why developing countries such as
India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Indonesia, Nigeria, Russia, Mexico, and Brazil,
will be the most affected countries during the [third global coronavirus
wave](/crypto-punks/coronavirus-the-third-pandemic-wave-is-silently-growing-
aa9ebf9ecfed).

In the end of May, after one month since the previous article, Brazil, Russia,
and India had already entered the top-10 list of the worst-hit countries,
marking [the beginning of the third global
wave](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software/status/1267167333371568129).

Now it’s the time to analyze why certain countries were able to dodge a
coronavirus bullet. Their experience is very important as many countries are
reopening their borders and economies.

> From Italy, the disease spread northwest across Europe, striking France,
> Spain, Portugal and England by June 1348, then spread east and north through
> Germany, Scotland and Scandinavia from 1348 to 1350. — [bubonic
> plague](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Death#European_outbreak)

Sounds familiar? Stay with me and you will know why the history has repeated
itself.

In order to understand the current pandemic, one should know a thing or two
about geopolitics.

After containing the outbreak in February, the CCP started a massive
propaganda campaign that the coronavirus has not originated in China, and that
China’s authoritarian approach was more efficient at handling the outbreak
than democratic approaches.

Firstly, we will debunk this narrative, showing that it’s possible to contain
the virus in a relatively democratic way.

Secondly, we will explain how geopolitics played a crucial role in spreading
the virus across the world.

Thirdly, we will look at the important things that are usually under-reported
by the mainstream media.

# Frontline Countries

Now let’s look at how different countries coped with the coronavirus, so we
can have a better understanding of why governments around the world took very
different approaches in managing the bio-safety risks in the first crucial
months of Wuhan coronavirus outbreak.

All countries reacted in a different way, but there are two major groups:

  * nations that **implemented** drastic measures from early January, because they realized the seriousness of the situation;
  * nations that **didn’t implement** any serious measures to protect themselves from an outbreak, because they either believed China’s official numbers and followed WHO’s guidelines, or they were simply afraid to damage relations with Beijing.

Taiwan, Vietnam, and Hong Kong were hit by the first wave of the coronavirus
and took drastic measures from the start. Both Taiwan and Vietnam didn’t join
China’s Belt and Road Initiative, and they historically had very complicated
relationship with China, so they weren’t afraid to damage relations with
Beijing even further. Both Taiwanese and Vietnamese governments were more
concerned about the safety of their own people.

Hong Kong is a bit different, because its government is controlled by Beijing,
but even HK [closed](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-51279726)
several ports with mainland China in January and February due to the heavy
pressure from a medical community, which went on a strike for a few days.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1230/1*BToUtnqbtIQKGuyOCi86VQ.png)

What unites all these places is that they’ve been hit by the SARS outbreak
from China in 2003 with a high case fatality rate of 10% (over 55% among
elders), which traumatized the population.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/920/1*CziULi5an5aRaY7nxkWXSg.png)

Source:
[wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Severe_acute_respiratory_syndrome)

Since people had a collective memory of SARS and how the CCP tried to cover it
up, this time many neighboring countries started reacting long before Wuhan
and other Chinese cities went on a lockdown in the end of January.

## Proactive government

Taiwan tackled the outbreak better than any other frontline country, despite
the large number of Chinese tourists and businessmen arriving daily to an
island. Taiwan has successfully contained the first and the second global
coronavirus waves with less than 10 deaths. As of June, Taiwan is not even in
the top 100 countries worst-hit by the virus.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*4-lxUBM9e6Os2aKuAWo1YQ.jpeg)

Source:
[worldometers](https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/country/taiwan/)

Why did Taiwan handle the outbreak much better than other countries?

  1. Since the CCP is bullying Taiwan to become a part of China, the Taiwanese government was not afraid to implement drastic measures that strained relations with Beijing.
  2. Taiwan was warning the WHO about potential human-to-human transmission since December, so the Taiwanese government understood that the Chinese state media was hiding the severity of the situation, because the Chinese government has a proven record of covering up virus outbreaks.
  3. Taiwan was hit hard by the SARS outbreak from China in 2003, so the population already had an experience of handling virus outbreaks through social distancing, self-isolation, and other safety measures.

Taiwan’s response was effective without massive lockdowns and other
authoritarian measures. Taiwan proved that it was possible to contain the
imported cases and prevent local transmission in a democratic way without
human rights abuses and without destroying country’s economy.

[In this article](/@tomaspueyo/coronavirus-learning-how-to-dance-b8420170203e)
you can read in more details about the measures that Taiwan’s authorities took
from December 2019, including monitoring of all individuals who had traveled
to Wuhan, early travel bans, mobilizing soldiers to produce masks, fixing mask
prices to avoid speculation, penalizing hoarding of medical supply to avoid
shortage, proactive tracking and tracing of potentially infected people and
their contacts, installing hand sanitizer dispensers in public places, and
enforcing self-quarantine for all arrivals.

The general public was very supportive towards safety measures and actively
helped the government. For example, people developed and updated an online map
to track mask supplies in local pharmacies.

## The World Health Organization

Apart from the previous experience with SARS outbreak, there is one more
reason why Taiwan handled COVID-19 so well.

Here is a thing, Taiwan is not even a
[member](https://twitter.com/studioincendo/status/1243909358133473285) of the
World Health Organization (WHO), because China doesn’t recognize Taiwan as a
sovereign state and historically used its influence, especially among
[developing countries](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zQV_DKQkT8o), to [block
Taiwan from the membership in United Nations
agencies](https://www.politico.com/news/2020/02/07/ethiopia-china-west-power-
competition-110766).

 _Note: The United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) is an equally
representative body, meaning that each country gets one vote regardless of its
population, so it’s possible to subvert the system by controlling the large
amount of votes from many small countries._

As a result, the Taiwanese government and people of Taiwan didn’t follow the
guidelines from the WHO, which eventually [lost all of its
credibility](https://twitter.com/goofrider/status/1234120901014122496).

In fact, Taiwan was ahead of the game and
[warned](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-taiwan/taiwan-
who-spar-again-over-coronavirus-information-sharing-idUSKCN21T0BA) the WHO
about possible human-to-human transmission of then-called “Wuhan virus” back
in December 2019, but the WHO ignored those warnings.

The WHO received lots of criticism because of its poor handling of the
coronavirus outbreak, which eventually led to the pandemic. The organization
[downplayed the seriousness of the
outbreak](https://thehill.com/opinion/international/487851-china-and-the-whos-
chief-hold-them-both-accountable-for-pandemic), [delayed a declaration of a
global emergency](https://www.theguardian.com/science/2020/jan/22/coronavirus-
who-steps-back-from-declaring-public-health-emergency), [criticized travel
bans and called for resuming flights to China on February
4](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-health-travel/who-working-on-
recommendations-for-resuming-flights-to-china-idUSKBN1ZY1IH), and [praised
China’s efforts in battling the
virus](https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/asia_pacific/chinese-officials-
note-serious-problems-in-coronavirus-response-the-world-health-organization-
keeps-praising-them/2020/02/08/b663dd7c-4834-11ea-91ab-
ce439aa5c7c1_story.html).

On January 14, the WHO assured that there were no evidences of a human-to-
human transmission, ignoring [Wuhan
whistleblowers](http://chinamediaproject.org/2020/03/11/whistling-against-
deception/) who exposed that the virus was human-to-human, and [warnings from
Taiwan](https://dailycaller.com/2020/03/20/who-taiwan-coronavirus-warning/)
about infectivity of the virus in December.

On January 23, the CCP completely locked down travels from Wuhan to anywhere
else in China, but international flights were still allowed from Wuhan to
other countries. At the same time, the personal protective equipment (PPE)
from around the world was shipped to China, and the WHO continued [opposing
any travel limitations with China](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-
health-who-idUSKBN1ZX1H3), which significantly increased the chances of the
virus spreading all over the globe.

On February 11, there were **44,653** confirmed cases in China, and **481**
known cases in many other countries across the world. However, the WHO didn’t
use its authority to declare a pandemic and suggest strict travel bans.
Instead, the WHO used valuable time and media attention to push for “COVID-19”
name as a replacement for widely-used “[Wuhan
virus](https://twitter.com/hashtag/WuhanCoronavirus)”. That was seen as an
attempt to
[disassociate](https://twitter.com/1213treboR/status/1240402129636003840)
China from the virus in case of a pandemic, rather than an attempt to prevent
an actual pandemic.

The WHO finally declared the coronavirus outbreak as a pandemic only one month
later on [March 11](https://www.who.int/dg/speeches/detail/who-director-
general-s-opening-remarks-at-the-media-briefing-on-covid-19---11-march-2020),
when the total amount of cases outside of China surged to **45,422** (almost a
hundred-time increase from February 11) and China accounted for less than
**1%** of all new daily cases worldwide. Basically, the WHO declared a
pandemic, suggesting strict measures, including travel bans, only when the
epicenter of the outbreak moved from China to Europe.

There are three main theories why the WHO reacted in such a way:

  1. It was [risky](https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/articles/2020-02-18/coronavirus-threat-means-who-should-demand-more-help-from-china) to criticize the Chinese government, because it could have stopped sharing valuable data
  2. Incompetence
  3. Corruption

Here are a few things about Tedros Adhanom, Director-General of the WHO, that
have been well-known in the HK-Taiwan community:

  * Tedros was [elected by secret-voting](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/23/health/tedros-world-health-organization-director-general.html) among all member states of the WHO, and replaced [Dr. Margaret Chan of China](https://www.nytimes.com/2006/11/09/world/asia/09who.html), who held the position for over a decade. Beijing has taken on a [more visible role](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zQV_DKQkT8o) in different international organizations over the last few decades, especially after China started rapidly growing its global influence with the [Belt and Road Initiative](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EvXROXiIpvQ).
  * Tedros served as the Minister of Health and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ethiopia till 2016, when the country was ruled by a dictator, who jailed thousands of political activists and [massacred hundreds of protesters](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2016_Ethiopian_protests). Ethiopia is a key to China’s Belt and Road Initiative in Africa and received [huge funding from Beijing](https://www.politico.com/news/2020/02/07/ethiopia-china-west-power-competition-110766). Ethiopia is the 96th country in a [global corruption index](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corruption_Perceptions_Index) list alongside with Tanzania and Gambia.
  * In 2017, Tedros tried to appoint a Zimbabwean dictator Robert Mugabe as a [WHO Goodwill Ambassador](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tedros_Adhanom#Mugabe_Goodwill_Ambassador_controversy), which was seen as a way to return a campaign favor. His decision was widely criticized by WHO member states and international organizations.
  * Tedros was involved in other scandals that include alleged [cover-ups of three possible cholera epidemics in Ethiopia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tedros_Adhanom#Hidase_Dam_controversy), and [Hidase Dam controversy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tedros_Adhanom#Hidase_Dam_controversy).

Unfortunately, in early days of the outbreak this knowledge wasn’t widely
spread beyond Hong Kong and Taiwan communities.

On the contrary, many social media platforms added links to the WHO page to
all videos and posts about the coronavirus in order to fight conspiracy
theories and
[misinformation](https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2020/02/dispelling-myths-
coronavirus-outbreak-200202093426388.html). The intention was good, but as a
result even more people started using the WHO as a reliable source of
information. People believed the official narrative that the virus was not
serious, travel bans were unnecessary, and there was no need to wear masks,
and that frontline Asian countries simply over-reacted due to panic.

However, if somebody is an authority, it doesn’t mean that what they say is
truth.

Hong Kong and Taiwan community, on the other hand, was flooded with memes
about the WHO because people knew about its ties to the CCP.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1150/1*5H_cg5eHziugNIFbP8081w.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2160/1*uslhqzZ7n_CA7HsAU8fXTg.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1190/1*snOtcOyytlEA4ROfvdB4Xw.jpeg)

This knowledge saved them from the disaster. People in Taiwan and Hong Kong
didn’t trust the WHO narrative, so they acted as if the coronavirus was
already spreading in their local communities.

## People’s power

Hong Kong is an interesting example, because its pro-Beijing government
couldn’t implement draconian measures such as stopping all transport
communication with mainland China, so the trains continued coming to HK during
the whole time of an outbreak. As a result, Hongkongers fought the coronavirus
in a very decentralized way, the same as during [pro-democracy
protests](/crypto-punks/decentralized-governance-inside-hong-kongs-open-
source-revolution-lihkg-reddit-pincong-519ab2861793).

Here are some of the measures that were taken by the public:

  * Medical workers went on a strike, demanding the government to close all the borders with China
  * Hongkongers encouraged social distancing and the use of hand sanitizers
  * Most people [wore masks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rjGgP1ucD28), except for some [elders](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1xh68s1m2ZI) and *cough* western *cough* expats
  * Political organizations and business owners gave away free masks
  * Restaurant owners set up transparent plastic barriers to protect customers that share the same table
  * Hongkongers [shamed](/@quinnchan_65419/why-do-hong-kongers-wear-a-mask-amidst-covid-19-a991c945b96e) those, who didn’t follow safety procedures in public places, endangering the whole community

As a result, Hong Kong has successfully contained the first two waves with
only 4 deaths.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*PPg2JepzVL-Bc79MHctZGg.png)

Source:
[worldometers](https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/country/china-hong-
kong-sar/)

The same as during pro-democracy protests, Hongkongers were very proactive in
fighting the virus. Here is a viral video of a guy following a mandatory self-
quarantine breaker to make sure that she doesn’t interact with anybody, and to
find out her identity, so she can be reported to the police.

After the epicenter of an outbreak has moved from China to the Western world,
the Hong Kong government was allowed to ramp up its efforts to contain
imported cases. Here is how an arrival of new passengers looked like in the
beginning of May.

Hongkongers even stopped mass protests due to the outbreak, until Beijing
tried to pass the national security law, only then protesters came back to the
streets.

By the way, here is some footage of a protest in the U.S. that clearly shows
the difference in mindsets between both societies.

Noticed the difference? During Hong Kong’s protest everybody wore masks, but
at the U.S. protest most people didn’t wear masks.

Such a high level of consciousness and solidarity among citizens saved Hong
Kong from becoming a hotspot of the coronavirus outbreak, despite a constant
stream of Chinese people from the mainland in the beginning of an outbreak.
Hong Kong’s experience shows us that people can fight the virus in a very
decentralized manner without relaying on a central government.

[

## Decentralized governance: inside Hong Kong’s open source revolution (LIHKG,
Reddit, Pincong…

### Dear passengers, welcome to Hong Kong, Cypherpunk Harbour. Please wipe out
your chat logs, photos, browsing history…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/decentralized-governance-inside-hong-kongs-open-source-
revolution-lihkg-reddit-pincong-519ab2861793)

However, one can argue that both Hong Kong and Taiwan didn’t experience a huge
outbreak, so their measures will be less effective in the countries that
already have lots of infected people.

## South Korea

South Korea is a great example of a country that experienced a sharp rise of
new cases, but then successfully flattened the curve in a relatively
democratic way with a very low case fatality rate.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*8RBOoZULwnLza3rM_ZjaKQ.png)

Source:
[worldometers](https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/country/south-korea/)

The same as Taiwan and Hong Kong, South Korea implemented drastic measures
from early January, so the number of coronavirus cases was relatively low,
until they missed one [super-spreader](https://graphics.reuters.com/CHINA-
HEALTH-SOUTHKOREA-CLUSTERS/0100B5G33SB/index.html), who carelessly infected
thousands of people. That incident spiked the number of infected people and
made South Korea’s outbreak the largest outside of China in the end of
February.

However, the outbreak was successfully
[localized](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BS0qoRyapUI) within a few weeks
without strict nation-wide lockdowns or curfews.

South Korea developed and ramped up the production of its own test kits early
enough, so the government was able to [conduct more tests per
person](https://www.businessinsider.de/international/coronavirus-testing-
covid-19-tests-per-capita-chart-us-behind-2020-3/) than any other country at
that time. After South Korea has flattened the curve a Seoul-based diagnostic
company, Seegene Inc., [started exporting its testing kits to other
countries](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-03-04/south-korea-
tests-hundreds-of-thousands-to-fight-virus-outbreak).

South Korea showed us that it’s possible to localize and contain the virus
even after the local transmission has exploded.

## Gateway to Europe

Now let’s look at the countries that didn’t do so well.

The next affected countries after China and South Korea were Iran and Italy.

What do we know about these two countries? Both Iranian and Italian
governments have close ties to the CCP and
[joined](https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2019/03/italy-joins-china-belt-road-
initiative-190321170015949.html) its Belt and Road Initiative (the New Silk
Road).

We don’t know much about what actually happened in Iran, because the country
has been in international isolation for decades and the Iranian government
covered up the outbreak.

Italy, on the other hand, is a much more transparent country, so we know that
Italy’s pre-pandemic economy was highly dependent on the millions of Chinese
tourists, students, and businessmen. Italy is also full of Chinese-run
clothing factories that
[outcompeted](https://www.bbc.com/news/business-21350013) local clothing
manufactures a long time ago through cost-cutting (e.g., [by using illegal
migrant labor, ignoring health and safety rules, and evading
taxes](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/jul/02/italys-biggest-chinese-
community-clashes-with-police-near-florence)). That allowed Chinese-run
factories export low-cost garments with the “Made In Italy” tag. We also know
that Milan, the capital of the worst-hit by the coronavirus region Lombardy,
is an [important international fashion
center](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fashion_in_Milan) with the major Italian
fashion brands headquartered in the city.

Thus, it’s reasonable to assume that due to both economic concerns and
political pressure from the CCP, the Italian government was simply afraid to
implement strict travel bans and other drastic measures early enough to
protect its own citizens from the virus.

For example, Taiwan implemented inspection measures for flights from Wuhan as
early as [31 December
2019](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2020_coronavirus_pandemic_in_Taiwan#Before_first_case_reported),
three weeks before the first case of the novel coronavirus has been reported
in Taiwan. By January 5, the Taiwan CDC began monitoring all individuals who
had traveled to Wuhan within last 14 days.

The Italian government, on the contrary, did nothing until the first two cases
of COVID-19 were reported in Rome on [January
31](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2020_coronavirus_outbreak_in_Italy#First_confirmed_cases).
Only then all flights to and from China were suspended, but by that time it
was too late, because there were already enough imported cases to seed a rapid
local transmission.

As a result, Italy became the first western country to experience a massive
outbreak, which then spread to other countries due to EU’s open borders.

In the 14th century, bubonic plague, often referred to as the “[Black
Death](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Death)”, used to spread from Asia
along the Silk Road and entered Europe via Constantinople, Sicily, and the
Italian Peninsula, eventually killing somewhere between 75 and 200 million
people worldwide. The Northern Italy’s international merchants played a [key
role](https://foreignpolicy.com/2020/04/06/chinese-coronavirus-spread-
worldwide-on-new-silk-road/) in transmitting plague to the rest of Europe.

Seven centuries later the history has repeated itself, except this time
airplanes were flying directly from [Wuhan to
Milan](https://www.dailyo.in/variety/coronavirus-coronavirus-pandemic-wuhan-
covid-19-quarantine/story/1/32587.html), two important transport hubs in Asia
and Europe.

# Conclusion

A valuable experience of many frontlines countries showed us that it’s
possible to contain the coronavirus without strict nation-wide lockdowns that
destroy economies and put the poorest people at risk of starvation. This
knowledge is extremely important as the third global coronavirus wave is
[rapidly
accelerating](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software/status/1273305494648696833),
and many places such as the US facing a strong [second local
wave](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software/status/1273212193329295362).

The most essential measures against the virus are well-know, and yet often
being ignored by some nations. Stop imported cases from other
countries/states/cities, encourage social distancing, provide masks and hand
sanitizers for all, and don’t trust data coming from authoritarian states.

The third global pandemic wave have already started, so it’s not time to relax
yet.

[

## Coronavirus: the third pandemic wave is silently growing

### The third global wave will hit developing countries such as India,
Pakistan, Bangladesh, Russia, Nigeria, Mexico…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/coronavirus-the-third-pandemic-wave-is-silently-growing-
aa9ebf9ecfed)

One can argue that stopping imported cases is not effective anymore, since
most affected countries already have enough cases for local transmission.

Firstly, there are countries that successfully suppressed the local
transmission, but they might have another outbreak if they open borders
without enforcing mandatory testing and strict 14-days self-quarantine rules
for all arrivals.

Secondly, it’s possible to “close the borders” within a country. For example,
India’s clusterization method is an attempt to implement the experience of
frontline countries within one country. Basically, each state, city, and even
district can be managed as a separate country with closed or open borders
depending on its coronavirus status: red, orange, or green. The transport
communication between green zones can be allowed, while red zones stay sealed.
The status of the zone is determined not only by the amount of confirmed
coronavirus cases there, but also by the amount of performed tests per capita.
Travelers between different states/cities have to quarantine themselves in
government-provided hotels.

That’s all for this article, in the following articles we will talk more about
the third wave, the economic impact of the pandemic, and how the coronavirus
has influenced the crypto market.

  * Help educate people about the coronavirus by **clapping** 50 times 👏 and [**sharing this article**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software/status/1254742334803189761) on Twitter.
  * I only write quality content about cryptocurrencies, blockchain, privacy, security, digital resistance, and the coronavirus. Follow me or send me a direct message on [**medium**](/@SamAI_Software), [**twitter**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software), or [**mastodon**](https://mastodon.technology/@samai).

 _Here is a quick ad from a reliable long-term sponsor, so I can continue
publishing articles without any paywall._

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*qEIXcNfVnxx2OayrnEPm4g.jpeg)

Are you concerned about the Fed pouring trillions of dollars into a sinking
economy? Do you want to get some cryptos in order to diversify your portfolio
and hedge against your local fiat currency collapse?

This article is brought to you by a privacy-oriented peer-to-peer self-
custodial end-to-end encrypted marketplace
[**LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra), where you can buy &
sell cryptocurrencies for fiat money. To start trading, create a new password-
protected account or log in with your [**favorite
wallet**](https://blog.localcryptos.com/localethereum-integrates-with-
wallets/?ref=eimahra) such as Ledger, MetaMask, or mobile apps like imToken.

[ **LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra) is an industry
leader in peer-to-peer non-custodial trading and a long-term sponsor of
[CryptoPunks](https://medium.com/crypto-punks) blog.

 _Disclaimer: The author is not a licensed financial advisor. The information
presented here is for educational purpose only and does not constitute
financial, investment, or other advice. Seek a duly licensed professional for
an investment advice._

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Crypto Punks](/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
35a0f7140471--------------------------------)

Crypto revolution has begun

[Read more from Crypto Punks](/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
35a0f7140471--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Caribbean Culture and Lifestyle-
Belize](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*pQkcDTX297wDzwhgn37oTA.jpeg)](/@caribbeanlifestylebelize?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Caribbean Culture and Lifestyle- Belize

](/@caribbeanlifestylebelize?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## First Batch of COVID Vaccines Now In Belize; Frontline Workers To Be
Vaccinated Next Week

![First Batch of COVID Vaccines Now In Belize; Frontline Workers To Be
Vaccinated Next
Week](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*9XAdinM-L33saEVz.jpg)](/@caribbeanlifestylebelize/first-
batch-of-covid-vaccines-now-in-belize-frontline-workers-to-be-vaccinated-next-
week-66fb1e2a6529?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Atiqus Salam
Shimanto](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*v04gLZJ8JlN9ra_kehO-
nw.jpeg)](/@salamshimanto458?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[Atiqus Salam Shimanto

](/@salamshimanto458?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Poverty

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*EZX1Vc-
kX5s3bXOHPaNnsQ.jpeg)](/@salamshimanto458/poverty-623f4b73dab6?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[[![LearningFromTheUniverse](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@rajivkk7?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[LearningFromTheUniverse

](/@rajivkk7?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

## The Vote (DT91)

](/@rajivkk7/the-vote-dt91-62a3ffe5f4c1?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Spectator
Kosovo](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*JGO4eNpivz4dZg8NhI4nKQ.jpeg)](/@kosovospectator?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Spectator Kosovo

](/@kosovospectator?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

in

[Kosovo Spectator

](https://medium.com/the-kosovo-spectator?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## MEI: Half of ERA priorities have been met

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*NFMQsn3hvAA-76wVdgN3bg.jpeg)](/the-
kosovo-spectator/mei-half-of-era-priorities-have-been-met-
ecbb47163534?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

[[![Paga](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*RWge1efQjuoEROvBtCWzhQ.jpeg)](/@mypaga?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Paga

](/@mypaga?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

## How Paga is Reducing Cash Handling to Slow Spread of COVID-19

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*4I-DVDI6FOhNVQGm-
OerCQ.jpeg)](/@mypaga/how-paga-is-reducing-cash-handling-to-slow-spread-of-
covid-19-174deaccdaf9?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Allan
Jones](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*F-IRcozx7QbiQPOM_CSCiQ.jpeg)](/@cheriallan?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Allan Jones

](/@cheriallan?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## They Gave a War But Nobody Came!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*kGp_zElKJ3tArBHkUbcVYg.png)](/@cheriallan/they-
gave-a-war-but-nobody-came-5f1c5a49d996?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![CJ
Werleman](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*ErOa8cmwB3217qFZ.jpg)](/@cjwerleman?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[CJ Werleman

](/@cjwerleman?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[Extra Newsfeed

](https://medium.com/extra-extra?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## A Short History of India’s anti-Muslim Pogroms

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*uLDCg1e5cbGC80LijE9FUw.jpeg)](/extra-
extra/a-short-history-of-indias-anti-muslim-pogroms-
cbca127de42e?source=post_internal_links---------6----------------------------)

[[![Conservation
Watch](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*6tAQ5m11v_4XLQ34y4sPDA.png)](/@conserwatch?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Conservation Watch

](/@conserwatch?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

in

[conservationwatch

](https://medium.com/conservationwatch?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## “Even if they want to kill us, let them kill us here.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*qB2DIueFXsmJUhmIgo87uA.png)](/conservationwatch/even-
if-they-want-to-kill-us-let-them-kill-us-
here-96c4a6bc53c4?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----35a0f7140471--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
35a0f7140471--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
35a0f7140471--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
35a0f7140471--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
35a0f7140471--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----35a0f7140471--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----35a0f7140471--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcrypto-
punks%2Fcoronavirus-geopolitics-how-frontline-countries-dodged-two-pandemic-
waves-35a0f7140471&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Sam
Aiken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/0*KLR9G_nzD3rK1p1w.jpg)](/@SamAI_Software)

[

## Sam Aiken

](/@SamAI_Software)

1.2K Followers

We are one big community

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F3cf7356baaf9&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcrypto-
punks%2Fcoronavirus-geopolitics-how-frontline-countries-dodged-two-pandemic-
waves-35a0f7140471&newsletterV3=39881a7541cc&newsletterV3Id=3cf7356baaf9&user=Sam+Aiken&userId=39881a7541cc&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Richa
Kumar](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*LULzJrgNnkOm6Z7ICMMZXg.jpeg)](/@ahcir?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------935d7f06_eb2b_4355_8812_79c3c402eca7-------)

[Richa Kumar

](/@ahcir?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
935d7f06_eb2b_4355_8812_79c3c402eca7-------)

## A walk down memory flower patch

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*3JW-
KCDM0DssK66d2ICr7w.png)](/@ahcir/a-walk-down-memory-flower-
patch-700ef2e1eaf4?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
935d7f06_eb2b_4355_8812_79c3c402eca7-------)

[[![Max
Annable](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*_DZ25crQhqhk7DYfcCV78Q@2x.jpeg)](/@maxannable?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------935d7f06_eb2b_4355_8812_79c3c402eca7-------)

[Max Annable

](/@maxannable?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
935d7f06_eb2b_4355_8812_79c3c402eca7-------)

## Winter on a Mediterranean Island

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Tr-O3sY6ny-1mzvQdcWpJA@2x.jpeg)](/@maxannable/winter-
on-a-mediterranean-island-1013e19826e3?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------935d7f06_eb2b_4355_8812_79c3c402eca7-------)

[[![Rubab
Farzand](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*c2GOO7csqC5ACzybX6NULA.png)](/@rubabfarzand?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------935d7f06_eb2b_4355_8812_79c3c402eca7-------)

[Rubab Farzand

](/@rubabfarzand?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
935d7f06_eb2b_4355_8812_79c3c402eca7-------)

## 9 Best-selling Books to Stimulate Your Child’s Brain Muscles

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*nyc81z--
qtj3M_euvKkHLw.png)](/@rubabfarzand/9-best-selling-books-to-stimulate-your-
childs-brain-muscles-a778c0354755?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------935d7f06_eb2b_4355_8812_79c3c402eca7-------)

[[![Karol
Manijak](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*c-sUIUGZiBOKtSLLmSJVYw.jpeg)](/@karolmanijak?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------935d7f06_eb2b_4355_8812_79c3c402eca7-------)

[Karol Manijak

](/@karolmanijak?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
935d7f06_eb2b_4355_8812_79c3c402eca7-------)

## I hiked on 1500m mountain shirtless. In winter

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*FvorESR3X-YK-
gpJ5WTdBA.png)](/@karolmanijak/i-hiked-on-1500m-mountain-shirtless-in-
winter-95453b29fd2a?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
935d7f06_eb2b_4355_8812_79c3c402eca7-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

