[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/aa9ebf9ecfed&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Crypto
Punks](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*RuBSr8PcbcSSimYWrpQsHA.png)](https://medium.com/crypto-
punks?source=post_page-----aa9ebf9ecfed--------------------------------)

Published in

[Crypto Punks

](https://medium.com/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
aa9ebf9ecfed--------------------------------)

[![Sam
Aiken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/0*KLR9G_nzD3rK1p1w.jpg)](/@SamAI_Software?source=post_page
-----aa9ebf9ecfed--------------------------------)

[Sam Aiken](/@SamAI_Software?source=post_page-----
aa9ebf9ecfed--------------------------------)

Follow

Apr 27, 2020

·

14 min read

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*Z0SRpG01Lr0a8CTmpPP_hQ.jpeg)

Image: coronavirus spread by [nextstrain](https://nextstrain.org/ncov/global)

# Coronavirus: the third pandemic wave is silently growing

## The third global wave will hit developing countries such as India,
Pakistan, Bangladesh, Brazil, Russia, Nigeria, Mexico, Indonesia, and will be
accompanied by global economic turmoil and famine.

  * Two thirds of world’s population live in the countries that didn’t peak, nor contained the virus yet.
  * Pandemic waves can be observed on different graphs: from total cases to death rates.
  * There was a big delay between the first and second waves, but the time gap between the second and third waves will be much smaller.
  * The second global wave affected mostly developed countries, while the third wave will hit developing countries.
  * According to the popular in finance Elliot waves principle, the third epidemic wave will peak at the higher level, than previous waves.
  * India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Brazil, Russia, Nigeria, Mexico, and Indonesia, are likely to lead the coronavirus dashboard during the third coronavirus wave.
  * The third pandemic wave is already silently growing and will be observed on global graphs by summer 2020.

 _Disclosure: this research is brought to you by a privacy-oriented peer-to-
peer cryptocurrency marketplace_[ **
_LocalCryptos_**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra) _, so you can read
the content for free without Medium’s paywall or Google ads. I also own BTC,
ETH, BCH, and many other coins._

## Intro

In the [previous article](/crypto-punks/debunking-coronavirus-myths-whats-
wrong-with-the-death-rate-c8c7bb1dc932) of the coronavirus series we’ve
explained why the case fatality rate (CFR) is a very misleading estimation of
a real death rate during an outbreak with exponential daily increase of new
cases.

In this article we will talk about the third global wave of the coronavirus.
Many people think that we’ve already peaked and the worst is behind.
Unfortunately, only around one third of world’s population live in the
countries that have already peaked or contained the virus. For the majority of
the world’s population it’s just the beginning.

In this article we will mainly focus on 10 most populated countries, which
account for 57% of the global population.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1020/1*CVz66Paiqw7qGjJl42rlZQ.png)

Source:
[wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_and_dependencies_by_population)

As of April 27, only 2 out of 10 most populated countries have already peaked.

Two countries.

Out of ten.

## Waves on death rate graph

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*ylv8kxNUZ98GamwNCONUCg.png)

Many people struggle to understand why the coronavirus death rate (among
closed cases) slowly fell from 42% to 6%, then climbed back to 22% and then
started decreasing again.

The explanation is easy —pandemic waves. The death rate among closed cases was
very high in the beginning of the first wave and then it started rising again
in the beginning of the second wave.

But shouldn’t the death rate be consistent through out the whole course of an
outbreak?

Not exactly. Both the real death rate (or the infection fatality rate) and an
estimation of the death rate can vary a lot, depending on the wave. There are
many reasons for why the death rate keeps changing.

  1. The median time from development of symptoms to death is shorter than from development of symptoms to full recovery. In other words, people die faster from COVID-19 than they recover. As a result, in the beginning of each wave, there are many new cases, which progress faster to “deaths” category than to “recoveries”. That spikes the death rate among closed cases. Interestingly, the case fatality rate (CFR) among all confirmed cases changes a bit differently, because it decreases when there is a huge spike of new cases.
  2. Most deaths of the first wave occurred in China, which has a proven record of covering up the outbreaks, so the data cannot be trusted. The second wave, on the other hand, affected mostly developed countries with much more transparent governments. In other words, there is no proof that the coronavirus death rate among closed cases in China was as low as 6%.
  3. Health care systems of many countries were overwhelmed during the peak of the second wave, so there were not enough resources to treat all critical patients, which increased the actual death rate (or infection fatality rate).
  4. Many nations faced shortage of testing kits during the peak of the second wave, so only symptomatic patients were tested, which increased the official death rate among closed cases.
  5. Different pandemic waves affect different countries with different health care systems, so the real death rate can be very different as well.

 _Note: many news outlets use the case fatality rate (CFR), which is a very
misleading estimation of a real death rate during an outbreak with exponential
daily increase of new cases. If you want to learn more about the coronavirus
death rate, read the_[ _previous article_](/crypto-punks/debunking-
coronavirus-myths-whats-wrong-with-the-death-rate-c8c7bb1dc932) _of this
series._

[

## Debunking coronavirus myths: what’s wrong with the death rate

### Mainstream media doesn’t explain why the coronavirus death rate keeps
changing up and down, so it’s time to tackle…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/debunking-coronavirus-myths-whats-wrong-with-the-death-
rate-c8c7bb1dc932)

Apart from the death rate graph, what are the other graphs that can clearly
show us different global waves of COVID-19?

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*oBsuS9StaMu8nvTtYTh4JQ.png)

Source: [Worldometer](https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*CPGplCSLg42U3YjbG_IU6g.png)

Source: [Worldometer](https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/worldwide-
graphs/)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*XaT-2G4ZLE56tQss43FpSA.png)

Source: [Worldometer](https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/worldwide-
graphs/)

OK, first two waves are seen clearly, but what are the evidences that there
will be more waves? And when? To answer this question let’s leave graphs aside
and talk about each wave separately.

 **First Wave**

The first wave was seeded from Wuhan in late December 2019 and started in
January 2020. China was the only affected country. All other countries didn’t
have enough imported cases to seed the local transmission.

The first wave started because Wuhan’s local officials and then the China’s
central government covered up the outbreak, so the virus had an opportunity to
spread before any serious measures were taken.

 **Second Wave**

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*IWDh8V2QsHpAxc1Jg0GiGA.jpeg)

Image: coronavirus spread as of Februrary 28, by
[nextstrain](https://nextstrain.org/ncov/global)

The second wave was mainly seeded from China in January — February and started
in March. The most affected places were the US, EU, Iran, Turkey, and South
Korea, which had lots of air traffic with China and with each other.

The second wave started because of a few main reasons:

  1. Even though nobody from Wuhan, an epicenter of the outbreak, could travel to anywhere else in China since January 23, the CCP allowed the coronavirus to escape Wuhan to other countries via international flights, while the WHO [was opposing any travel restrictions with China](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-health-who-idUSKBN1ZX1H3).
  2. During the first wave, the personal protective equipment (PPE) from around the world was shipped to China and the CCP banned any export of the PPE to other countries. That created a shortage of the PPE needed for medical workers around the globe during the second wave, so many of them contracted the coronavirus, which decreased the capacities of the health care systems in affected countries.
  3. The World Health Organization (WHO) [downplayed the seriousness of the outbreak](https://thehill.com/opinion/international/487851-china-and-the-whos-chief-hold-them-both-accountable-for-pandemic), [delayed a declaration of a global emergency](https://www.theguardian.com/science/2020/jan/22/coronavirus-who-steps-back-from-declaring-public-health-emergency), [criticized travel bans and called for resuming flights to China on February 4](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-health-travel/who-working-on-recommendations-for-resuming-flights-to-china-idUSKBN1ZY1IH), and [praised China’s efforts in battling the virus](https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/asia_pacific/chinese-officials-note-serious-problems-in-coronavirus-response-the-world-health-organization-keeps-praising-them/2020/02/08/b663dd7c-4834-11ea-91ab-ce439aa5c7c1_story.html).
  4. Many countries (e.g., Iran and Italy) that joined China’s controversial Belt and Road Initiative didn’t implement strict measures to protect their population from the virus, because the governments of these countries either believed China’s official numbers, or they were simply too afraid to anger the CCP.

The second wave was accompanied by the global market crash and collapse in oil
demand.

 _Note: we will talk more about the geopolitics of the coronavirus pandemic in
later articles of this series._

 **Third Wave**

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*F9BfShqivQHs36uew6DBAQ.jpeg)

Image: coronavirus spread as of April 26, by
[nextstrain](https://nextstrain.org/ncov/global)

The third wave was seeded mainly from the developed countries and started some
time in April, but it will show up on global graphs only in May — June. The
third wave will hit developing countries the most and will be accompanied by
the famine, disruption of food supply chains, global economic turmoil, and
hyper-inflation of local currencies.

Here is a list of countries that have high chances to lead the coronavirus
dashboard during the third wave: India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Indonesia,
Nigeria, Russia, Brazil, and Mexico.

Apart from that, many developed countries will slowly start lifting up the
lockdowns, which will inevitably lead to a new wave of infection there, but
probably much smaller than the previous one.

There was a big delay between first and second epidemic waves, but the time
gap between second and third waves will be much smaller.

According to the popular in finance Elliot waves principle, the third pandemic
wave will peak at the higher level than two previous waves.

We cannot see the third wave on the global graphs yet, but we can see that
it’s coming by analyzing the following data.

## Developing countries

Let’s start with some good news. There are at least 3 major factors that might
play in favor of developing countries:

  * they usually have a hotter climate, which might slightly reduce the spread of the infection;
  * they have generally younger and healthier population;
  * the virus will be better researched once it hits developing countries.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*l9UTDeTzDFPQh_r30cY4hw.png)

Source: [OurWorldinData](https://ourworldindata.org/coronavirus)

Now let’s look at some maps to understand the fundamental challenges of many
developing countries amid coronavirus pandemic: high population density and
weak health care systems with a small amount of hospital beds and medical
doctors.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*aoFWOdAOJeVv-zMW68_VaA.png)

Source: [OurWorldinData](https://ourworldindata.org/most-densely-populated-
countries)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*FRUZB6oPJxXNuBnzely0-g.png)

Source: [OurWorldinData](https://ourworldindata.org/coronavirus)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*CWEFgH-fXjbTlrimAzCrsQ.png)

Source: [OurWorldinData](https://ourworldindata.org/coronavirus)

As we see from the maps above, the whole Indian subcontinent, which accounts
for around 25% of world’s population, is in a high risk zone.

Let’s have a closer look at its biggest country.

## India

India is the strongest candidate to lead the coronavirus dashboard during the
third coronavirus wave due to several reasons: it has the world’s second
largest population, very high population density, huge slums, very limited
health care system capacity, and poor hygiene practices among populace
comparative to developed countries.

Indian government understood the seriousness of this situation very early, so
they’ve implemented the world’s largest nation-wide lockdown on March 22, when
there were less than **400** confirmed cases in the country of **1.4 billion**
people. Unfortunately, lockdown not only created huge problems for millions of
[migrant workers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EwfBRIA3h6c), but it also
didn’t stop the spread of the coronavirus.

Despite the lockdown, the number of confirmed cases surged from **396** to
**28,380** as of April 27.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*Uo_QCWIcFwJPcs0pqWiGIw.png)

Source: [Worldometer](https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*Ohxu2fe_TtXQURsTOWGJaw.png)

Source: [Worldometer](https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/)

To be fair, a nation-wide lockdown did help India buy more time to prepare for
an upcoming health care crisis by slowing down exponential growth, at least
according to official statistics. We can see that on the logarithmic scale.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*ng4n2-nK6nYeUeInQrTxwA.png)

Source: [Worldometer](https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/)

However, it’s not clear whether the exponential growth was actually stopped,
or is it simply not being reported due to lack of proper testing. For
examples, it’s very hard to do testing in slums and certain communities where
people literally throw stones at health care workers to keep them away.
Assaults have been
[reported](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-04-13/doctors-come-
under-attack-in-india-as-coronavirus-stigma-grows) across all India.

There are at least three main reasons why people attack medical workers who
try to contain the virus:

  * Firstly, people are afraid of catching the virus from medical workers.
  * Secondly, there are lots of coronavirus deniers in India, especially in certain highly-religious communities.
  * Thirdly, there is fundamental distrust of Muslim communities towards current pro-Hindu government, which sparked huge [nation-wide protests](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Citizenship_Amendment_Act_protests) before the coronavirus pandemic started.

India is performing **0.5** tests per every thousand people, compared to
**17** per thousand in the U.S., and **29** per thousand in Italy as of April
27. Such a low rate of testing is similar to those in Bolivia, Mexico, Uganda,
Guyana, and Rwanda. That has increased fears the outbreak could be much larger
than official data shows.

However, the devil is in the detail. Despite a low number of tests per capita,
India performed more tests ( **665,819** ) than most other countries with the
similar amount of confirmed cases ( **28,380** ). Here is an interesting
comment from
[DarthusPius](https://www.reddit.com/r/China_Flu/comments/g92k4l/the_third_coronavirus_wave_is_silently_growing_in/forgcwm/)
in a Reddit thread:

> Test/million is a baseless statistic given that 80% of the cases are
> concentrated in 6 cities and over half the 700 districts in India haven’t
> seen a new case in 2 weeks with over 100 districts not having seen a case at
> all.

Basically, he refers to the fact that the level of urbanization in India is
still low, so most people live in rural areas with lower population density.
Since coronavirus is mostly targeting big cities, the amount of performed
tests should be enough to effectively identify and isolate new cases. That
could be true if the virus stayed only in those 6 big cities. Unfortunately,
lockdown sparked a huge exodus of migrant workers from big cities back to
their villages, which could have seeded rural areas enough to facility rapid
local transmission in the upcoming months.

Additionally, since a nation-wide lockdown froze the economy and put millions
at [risk of starvation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uNFy2739j7g), many
states decided to slowly lift lockdown restrictions in “green” zones where the
amount of coronavirus cases is low. Unfortunately, this risky plan to revive
the Indian economy can backlash with exponential growth of COVID-19 cases,
starting from much higher numbers than before the lockdown.

## Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nigeria, Indonesia

The situation in Pakistan and Bangladesh is pretty similar to that in India,
but with one big exception. Pakistan, Bangladesh, as well as Nigeria and
Indonesia, are Muslim-majority countries.

Why does it matter?

 **Ramadan**

It’s still unclear to what extend authorities in Muslim-majority countries
will enforce curfews and bans on religious gatherings during the holy month of
Ramadan, which will continue till May 23. For example, Pakistan
[allowed](https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2020/04/coronavirus-pandemic-change-
ramadan-muslims-200420074054279.html) congregational prayers at mosques during
Ramadan.

Let’s also add the fact that there are lots coronavirus deniers in highly-
religious communities, and now we can see a big challenge that authorities in
Muslim-majority countries will have to tackle amid coronavirus pandemic.

Meanwhile, lets have a look at graphs that suggest that the virus spreads
rapidly in these countries.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*aGImmR_dw2BfOzoxzRC_CA.png)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*DnYEBim63wyyy-udGS_ELA.png)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*uuQO7lLNr0NLVJONGf3NUg.png)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*-L2Er5SzhqZlUKpYKZinQA.png)

Source: [Worldometer](https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/)

## Russia

Russia is very different from other countries mentioned above. Unlike many
developing countries, Russia has a much lower population density, it has a
relatively strong health care system, and enough resources to perform lots of
testing.

Here is the amount of coronavirus tests per thousand people performed in
different countries, as of April 27:

  *  **21** tests in Russia
  *  **17** tests in the U.S.
  *  **1.4** tests in Brazil
  *  **0.7** tests in Pakistan
  *  **0.5** tests in Mexico
  *  **0.5** tests in India
  *  **0.3** tests in Bangladesh
  *  **0.3** tests in Indonesia
  *  **0.05** tests in Nigeria

Testing is very important for the early isolation of infected people and their
close contacts. Seem like Russia is doing well, right?

Not so fast, the Russian economy is crippled by military conflicts, sanctions,
recently plunged oil prices, and political instability, which fuel the crisis.
There are also lots of coronavirus deniers, because many people generally
don’t trust state-run media outlets, especially due to now-canceled
controversial [constitutional
referendum](https://www.cnbc.com/2020/04/22/coronavirus-in-russia-a-challenge-
for-president-putin-and-the-world.html), which was scheduled to take place in
April. Some people even believe that the state-run media started pushing
coronavirus fears to justify cancellation of the so-called “referendum”,
because government analysts realized that people will not vote in favor of
[new
amendments](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2020_amendments_to_the_Constitution_of_Russia).

To contain the virus, the Russian government implemented lockdown, so people
in big cities need to get digital permissions to go out. However, low
population density, intensive testing, and lockdown didn’t significantly slow
down the spread of the virus yet.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*nYVuP1Q8dWJ5asmo113f8A.png)

Source: [Worldometer](https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/)

## Brazil and Mexico

Both Brazilian and Mexican governments reacted very slow to the outbreak, and
they still have to ramp up coronavirus testing. Experts suggest that the real
amount of cases is much higher in both countries due to very low testing per
capita.

Since Brazilian government took very soft approach at handling the outbreak,
people had to rely on themselves. For example, local gangs in Rio de Janeiro’s
favelas [imposed strict
curfews](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2020/mar/25/brazil-rio-gangs-
coronavirus) back in March to slow coronavirus spread.

Unfortunately, even according to official data, the virus spreads rapidly in
both Brazil and Mexico. The true scale of the outbreak is unknown.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*UqWmq09bDaS4XpNQamT68g.png)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*9d0JCB-wQOFAgrWwy23KqA.png)

Source: [Worldometer](https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/)

## Conclusion

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*GADj5iRnrhFSlBB6MmJb5g.png)

Source: [Worldometer](https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/)

As of April 27, seven out of ten most affected countries by coronavirus have
the population of less than 100 million people. The majority of world’s
population lives in the countries, which are still in the beginning of the
outbreak.

Here is a good visual representation of world’s population:

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*u5QU5wL3BykcuQrshMd3JA.jpeg)

Image:
[wiki](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/9/90/Global_population_cartogram.png)

Developing countries don’t have enough resources, no experiences to contain
the virus, which was largely seeded from China and from rich developed
countries.

However, developing countries have large amounts of poor people, who are the
most vulnerable during pandemic, economic turmoil, and food shortage.

  * Help educate people about the coronavirus by **clapping** 50 times 👏 and [**sharing this article**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software/status/1254742334803189761) on Twitter.
  * I only write quality content about cryptocurrencies, blockchain, privacy, security, digital resistance, and now coronavirus. Follow me or send me a direct message on [**medium**](/@SamAI_Software), [**twitter**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software), or [**mastodon**](https://mastodon.technology/@samai).

 _Here is a quick ad from a reliable long-term sponsor, so I can continue
publishing articles without any paywall._

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*argGxGMtWZaVnWWXiyOe2g.jpeg)

Are you concerned about the Fed pouring trillions of dollars into a sinking
economy? Do you want to get some cryptos in order to diversify your portfolio
and hedge against your local fiat currency collapse?

This research is brought to you by a privacy-oriented peer-to-peer self-
custodial end-to-end encrypted marketplace
[**LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra), where you can buy &
sell cryptocurrencies for fiat money. To start trading, create a new password-
protected account or log in with your [**favorite
wallet**](https://blog.localcryptos.com/localethereum-integrates-with-
wallets/?ref=eimahra) such as Ledger, MetaMask, or mobile apps like imToken.

[ **LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra) is an industry
leader in peer-to-peer non-custodial trading and a long-term sponsor of
[CryptoPunks](https://medium.com/crypto-punks) blog.

 _Disclaimer: I am not a licensed financial advisor, and this article is not a
financial advice. The information presented here is for educational purpose
only, it represents my personal opinion, and is not purported to be fact. I’m
not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or
alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any
content, goods, services or companies mentioned in this article. Seek a duly
licensed professional for an investment advice._

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Crypto Punks](/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
aa9ebf9ecfed--------------------------------)

Crypto revolution has begun

[Read more from Crypto Punks](/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
aa9ebf9ecfed--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Clifton
Dutton](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*agv71Y_JsmRWw54k)](/@briandutton28?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Clifton Dutton

](/@briandutton28?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## My COVID-19 Experience

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*vmL3ZSFCzk3mhCnq2vBKLw.jpeg)](/@briandutton28/my-
covid-19-experience-f04a6d9aa7b1?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Reuben
Salsa](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Ii3-JAPWUBJR0aLQaT9iMA.jpeg)](/@reubensalsa?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Reuben Salsa

](/@reubensalsa?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

in

[Font Devourer

](https://medium.com/font-devourer?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Covid Won’t Stop Santa

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*ZrkDHOVFr3Cz3mTNls3YDQ.png)](/font-
devourer/covid-wont-stop-santa-3c3ecd704b77?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[[![Tucker
Good](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@tuckergood?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Tucker Good

](/@tuckergood?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## The people may be here, but the energy is gone.

![Picture of empty office
cubicles.](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*CW6Na9PnWom89yXB)](/@tuckergood/the-
people-may-be-here-but-the-energy-is-
gone-831c5f1ade7c?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![CTN News](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*5D-sv-
t_oMD_J05b)](/@ctnchiangrai?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[CTN News

](/@ctnchiangrai?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Omicron Variants Bark Maybe Worse Than Its Bite

](/@ctnchiangrai/omicron-variants-bark-maybe-worse-than-its-
bite-e5fd9b414a09?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![James W
Scott](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*7OMMVkTeRQ9u274JB158bQ.jpeg)](/@vern7654?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[James W Scott

](/@vern7654?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

## I am writing this after consideration of the facts.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Y3kdRkDcdorGxq1DuINNKQ@2x.jpeg)](/@vern7654/i-am-
writing-this-after-consideration-of-the-
facts-4ee7e1363c48?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![CTN News](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*5D-sv-
t_oMD_J05b)](/@ctnchiangrai?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[CTN News

](/@ctnchiangrai?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Pattaya Mayor Says No Lockdowns Despite Omicron Surge

](/@ctnchiangrai/pattaya-mayor-says-no-lockdowns-despite-omicron-
surge-f82785fdaaff?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Rebekkah
Ismakov](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*qXhkEasRTAUIt5xsa7wGUg.jpeg)](/@rebekkahismakov?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Rebekkah Ismakov

](/@rebekkahismakov?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[Carbon Health

](https://medium.com/carbon-blog?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## COVID-19 Risk Assessment Simulation Model

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Hf6yrgx-W0u7f5QqCKPhBQ.png)](/carbon-
blog/covid-19-risk-assessment-simulation-
model-684fc27d5019?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Ruskin
P.](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*XpA1mPInqhxTAy0OZEzfAQ.jpeg)](/@globalpioneers?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Ruskin P.

](/@globalpioneers?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## How to Select and Wear a Mask for Corona virus Protection |

](/@globalpioneers/how-to-select-and-wear-a-mask-for-corona-virus-
protection-4253044e538c?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----aa9ebf9ecfed--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
aa9ebf9ecfed--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
aa9ebf9ecfed--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
aa9ebf9ecfed--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
aa9ebf9ecfed--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----aa9ebf9ecfed--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----aa9ebf9ecfed--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcrypto-
punks%2Fcoronavirus-the-third-pandemic-wave-is-silently-growing-
aa9ebf9ecfed&source=post_page--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Sam
Aiken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/0*KLR9G_nzD3rK1p1w.jpg)](/@SamAI_Software)

[

## Sam Aiken

](/@SamAI_Software)

1.2K Followers

We are one big community

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F3cf7356baaf9&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcrypto-
punks%2Fcoronavirus-the-third-pandemic-wave-is-silently-growing-
aa9ebf9ecfed&newsletterV3=39881a7541cc&newsletterV3Id=3cf7356baaf9&user=Sam+Aiken&userId=39881a7541cc&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Tanya
Guyatt](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*92nap6ADjcPRS98-5elyhg.jpeg)](/@tcguyatt?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------279cc48d_fd4a_4854_9e77_3b5fd4df62a0-------)

[Tanya Guyatt

](/@tcguyatt?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
279cc48d_fd4a_4854_9e77_3b5fd4df62a0-------)

## Book Review: Right Where We Belong, How Refugee Teachers and Students are
Changing the Future of…

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*oUo4OChlCjdLoNTDCYWyvg.jpeg)](/@tcguyatt/book-
review-right-where-we-belong-how-refugee-teachers-and-students-are-changing-
the-future-of-2863890c2085?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------279cc48d_fd4a_4854_9e77_3b5fd4df62a0-------)

[[![Lawrence
Robinson](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*uaTe8DhFpyx0LsTX)](/@lawrence-
robinson?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
279cc48d_fd4a_4854_9e77_3b5fd4df62a0-------)

[Lawrence Robinson

](/@lawrence-robinson?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
279cc48d_fd4a_4854_9e77_3b5fd4df62a0-------)

## Thalidomide is the reason we CAN still trust Science

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*OLhDP3VeKFBpvmlAGiSRsQ.jpeg)](/@lawrence-
robinson/thalidomide-is-the-reason-we-can-still-trust-
science-6f28d935a6f7?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
279cc48d_fd4a_4854_9e77_3b5fd4df62a0-------)

[[![Empirical Economics
Blog](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*fj8jAu8oFQzuWzMb)](/@empiricaleconomicsblog?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------279cc48d_fd4a_4854_9e77_3b5fd4df62a0-------)

[Empirical Economics Blog

](/@empiricaleconomicsblog?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------279cc48d_fd4a_4854_9e77_3b5fd4df62a0-------)

## Egyptian Scammers: The wild world of pyramid schemes

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*B8SaCeSojGa59X1S.jpg)](/@empiricaleconomicsblog/egyptian-
scammers-the-wild-world-of-pyramid-
schemes-29ec4b085d5a?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
279cc48d_fd4a_4854_9e77_3b5fd4df62a0-------)

[[![Chloe
Meyer](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*a0C2Pt5iejmbQS2UJM7K1Q.jpeg)](/@meyerc58?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------279cc48d_fd4a_4854_9e77_3b5fd4df62a0-------)

[Chloe Meyer

](/@meyerc58?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
279cc48d_fd4a_4854_9e77_3b5fd4df62a0-------)

## HERE WE GO AGAIN

](/@meyerc58/here-we-go-again-a083682ec105?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------279cc48d_fd4a_4854_9e77_3b5fd4df62a0-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

