[ NAKAMOTO ](https://nakamoto.com)

  * [Home](https://nakamoto.com/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/nakamoto)
  * [Contribute](https://nakamoto.com/contribute/)
  * [About](https://nakamoto.com/about/)

__

__

# Credible Neutrality As A Guiding Principle

Jan 3, 2020  11 min read  [Vitalik Buterin](/author/vitalik/ "Vitalik
Buterin")

[ ![Credible Neutrality As A Guiding
Principle](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw==)
](/credible-neutrality/)

Consider the following:

  * People are sometimes upset at governments spending 5% of GDP to support specific public projects or specific industries, but those same people are often not upset at that same government causing much larger reallocations of capital by enforcing property rights
  * People are sometimes upset at blockchain projects that directly allocate (or “premine”) many coins into the hands of recipients hand-picked by developers, but those same people are often not upset at the billions of dollars of value printed by major blockchains like Bitcoin and Ethereum into the hands of proof of work miners
  * People are sometimes upset at social media platforms censoring or deprioritizing content with specific disfavored political ideologies, even ideologies that the people upset at the censorship themselves disagree with, but those same people are often not upset at the fact that ride-sharing platforms kick drivers off the platform if their ratings are too low

One possible reaction to some of these situations is to shout “gotcha!” and
bask in the glory of having seemingly unmasked a hypocrite. And indeed,
sometimes this reaction is correct. In my view, it is genuinely a mistake to
treat carbon taxes as statist interventionism while treating government
enforcement of property rights as just enforcement of natural law. It is
genuinely also a mistake to treat miners working to secure a blockchain as
laborers doing Real Thermodynamic Work worthy of compensation, but treat any
attempt to compensate developers improving the blockchain’s code as being an
act of “printing free money”.

But even if attempts to _systematize_ one’s intuitions often go astray, deep
moral intuitions like this are rarely entirely devoid of value. And in this
case, I would argue that there is a very important principle that is at play,
and one that is likely to become key to the discourse of how to build
efficient, pro-freedom, fair and inclusive institutions that influence and
govern different spheres of our lives. And that principle is this: ****when
building mechanisms that decide** high-stakes **outcomes, it’s very**
important **for those mechanisms to be _credibly neutral_****.

## Mechanisms are algorithms plus incentives

First, what is a mechanism? Here I use the term in a way similar to that used
in the game theory literature when talking about [mechanism
design](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mechanism_design): essentially, a
mechanism is an algorithm plus incentives. A mechanism is a tool that takes in
inputs from multiple people, and uses these inputs as a way to determine
things about its participants’ values, so as to make some kind of decision
that people care about. In a well-functioning mechanism, the decision made by
the mechanism is both efficient - in the sense that the decision is the best
possible outcome given the participants’ preferences, and incentive-
compatible, meaning that people have the incentive to participate “honestly”.

It’s easy to come up with examples of mechanisms. A few examples:

  *  _Private property and trade_. The “inputs” are users’ ability to reassign ownership through donation or trade, and the “output” is a (sometimes formalized, sometimes only implied) database of who has the right to determine how each physical object is used. The goal is to encourage production of useful physical objects and put them into the hands of people who make best use of them.
  *  _Auctions_. The input is bids, the output is who gets the item being sold, and how much the buyer must pay.
  *  _Democracy_. The input is votes, the output is who controls each seat in the government that was up for election.
  *  _Upvotes, downvotes, likes and retweets on social media_. The input is upvotes, downvotes, likes and retweets, the output is who sees what content. A game theory pedant may say that this is only an _algorithm_ , not a mechanism, because it lacks built-in incentives; but future versions may well have built-in incentives (and past versions; see [Slashdot meta-moderation](https://slashdot.org/faq/metamod.shtml))
  *  _Blockchain-awarded incentives for proof of work and proof of stake_. The input is what blocks and other messages participants produce, the output is which chain the network accepts as canonical, and rewards are used to encourage “correct” behavior.

We are entering a hyper-networked, hyper-intermediated and rapidly evolving
information age, in which centralized institutions are [losing public
trust](https://www.amazon.com/Revolt-Public-Crisis-Authority-Millennium-
ebook/dp/B07J2V3PG4) and people are searching for alternatives. As such,
different forms of mechanisms – as a way of intelligently aggregating the
wisdom of the crowds (and sifting it apart from the also ever-present non-
wisdom of the crowds) – are likely to only grow more and more relevant to how
we interact.

## What is credible neutrality?

Now, let us talk about this all-important idea, “credible neutrality”.
Essentially, a mechanism is credibly neutral if just by looking at the
mechanism’s design, it is easy to see that the mechanism does not discriminate
for or against any specific people. The mechanism treats everyone fairly, to
the extent that it’s possible to treat people fairly in a world where
everyone’s capabilities and needs are so different. “Anyone who mines a block
gets 2 ETH” is credibly neutral, “Bob gets 1000 coins because we know he’s
written a lot of code and we should reward him” is not. “Any post that five
people flag as being bad does not get shown” is credibly neutral, “any post
that our moderation team decides is prejudiced against blue-eyed people does
not get shown” is not. “The government grants a 20-year limited monopoly to
any invention” is credibly neutral (though there are serious challenges around
the edges in determining what inventions qualify), “the government decides
that curing cancer is important, and so appoints a committee to distribute $1
billion among people trying to cure cancer” is not.

Of course, neutrality is never total. Block rewards discriminate in favor of
those that have special connections that give them access to hardware and
cheap electricity. Capitalism discriminates in favor of concentrated interests
and the wealthy, and against the poor and those who rely heavily on public
goods. Political discourse discriminates against anything caught on the wrong
side of [social desirability
bias](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_desirability_bias). And any
mechanism that corrects for coordination failures has to make some assumptions
about what those failures are, and discriminates against those whose
coordination failures it underestimates. But this does not detract from the
fact that some mechanisms are much more neutral than others.

This is why private property is as effective as it is: not because it is a
god-given right, but because it’s a credibly neutral mechanism that solves a
lot of problems in society - far from all problems, but still a lot. This is
why filtering by popularity is okay, but filtering by political ideology is
problematic: it’s easier to agree that a neutral mechanism treats everyone
reasonably fairly than it is to convince a diverse group of people that some
particular blacklist of unallowed political viewpoints is correct. And this is
why on-chain developer rewards are viewed more suspiciously than on-chain
mining rewards: it’s easier to verify who’s a miner than it is to verify who’s
a developer, and most attempts to identify who is a developer in practice
easily fall prey to accusations of favoritism.

Note that it is not just neutrality that is required here, it is _credible_
neutrality. That is, it is not just enough for a mechanism to not be designed
to favor specific people or outcomes over others; it’s also crucially
important for a mechanism to be able to _convince a large and diverse group of
people_ that the mechanism at least makes that basic effort to be fair.
Mechanisms such as blockchains, political systems and social media are
designed to facilitate cooperation across large, and diverse, groups of
people. In order for a mechanism to actually be able to serve as this kind of
common substrate, _everyone_ participating must be able to see that the
mechanism is fair, and everyone participating must be able to see that
everyone else is able to see that the mechanism is fair, because everyone
participating wants to be sure that everyone else will not abandon the
mechanism the next day.

That is, what we need is something like a [game-theoretic concept of common
knowledge](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_knowledge_\(logic\)) \- or, in
less mathematical terms, a widely shared notion of _legitimacy_. To achieve
this kind of common knowledge of neutrality, the neutrality of the mechanism
must be very easy to see - so easy to see, that even a relatively uneducated
observer can see it, even in the face of a hostile propaganda effort to make
the mechanism seem biased and untrustworthy.

## Building credibly neutral mechanisms

There are four primary rules to building a credibly neutral mechanism:

  1. Don’t write specific people or specific outcomes into the mechanism
  2. Open source and publicly verifiable execution
  3. Keep it simple
  4. Don’t change it too often

(1) is simple to understand. To go back to our previous examples, “Anyone who
mines a block gets 2 ETH” is credibly neutral, “Bob gets 1000 coins” is not.
“Downvotes mean a post gets shown less” is credibly neutral, “prejudice
against blue-eyed people means a post gets shown less” is not. “Bob” is a
specific person, and “prejudice against blue-eyed people” is a specific
outcome. Now of course, Bob may genuinely be a great developer who was really
valuable to some blockchain project’s success, and deserves a reward, and
anti-blue-eyed prejudice is certainly an idea I, and hopefully you, don’t want
to see becoming prominent. But in credibly neutral mechanism design, the goal
is that these desired outcomes are not written into the mechanism; instead,
they are emergently discovered from the participants’ actions. In a free
market, the fact that Charlie’s widgets are not useful but David’s widgets are
useful is emergently discovered through the price mechanism: eventually,
people stop buying Charlie’s widgets, so he goes bankrupt, while David earns a
profit and can expand and make even more widgets. ****Most bits of information
in the output should** come from **the participants’ inputs, not** from
**hard-coded rules inside of the mechanism itself****.

(2) is also simple to understand: the rules of the mechanism should be public,
and it should be possible to publicly verify that the rules are being executed
correctly. Note that in many cases, you don’t want the inputs or outputs to be
public; [this article](https://vitalik.ca/general/2019/04/03/collusion.html)
goes into the reasons why a very strong level of privacy, where you cannot
even prove how you participated if you want to, is often a good idea.
Fortunately, verifiability and privacy can be achieved at the same time with a
combination of zero knowledge proofs and blockchains; see
[here](https://github.com/barryWhiteHat/maci) for more details.

(3), the idea of simplicity, is ironically the least simple. [This
post](https://vitalik.ca/general/2018/11/25/central_planning.html) on “central
planning as overfitting” goes into many of the arguments much more deeply, but
it’s worth summarizing. The more simple a mechanism is, and the fewer
parameters a mechanism has, the less space there is to insert hidden privilege
for or against a targeted group. If a mechanism has fifty parameters that
interact in complicated ways, then it’s likely that for any desired outcome
you can find parameters that will achieve that outcome. But if a mechanism has
only one or two parameters, this is much more difficult. You can create
privilege for very broad groups (“demagogues”, “the rich”, etc) but you cannot
target a narrow group of people, and your ability to target specific outcomes
goes down further with time, as there is more and more of a “veil of
ignorance” between you at time A that is creating the mechanism and your
beneficiaries at time B and the specific situation they will be in that might
let them disproportionately benefit from the mechanism.

And this brings us to rule (4), not changing the mechanism too often. Changing
the mechanism is a type of complexity, and it also “resets the clock” on the
veil of ignorance, giving you the opportunity to adjust the mechanism to favor
your particular friends and attack your particular enemies with the most up-
to-date information about what unique positions these groups are in and how
different adjustments to the mechanism would affect them.

## Not just neutrality: efficacy also matters

A common fallacy of the more extreme versions of the ideologies that I alluded
to at the beginning of this post is a kind of neutrality maximalism: if it
can’t be done completely neutrally, it should not be done at all! The fallacy
here is that this viewpoint achieves narrow-sense neutrality at the cost of
broad-sense neutrality. For example, you can guarantee that every miner will
be on the same footing as every other miner (12.5 BTC or 2 ETH per block), and
that every developer will be on the same footing as every other developer
(with no remuneration beyond thanks for their public service), but what you
sacrifice is that development becomes highly under-incentivized relative to
mining. It is unlikely that the last 20% of miners contribute more to a
blockchain’s success than its developers, and yet that’s what the current
reward structures seem to imply.

Speaking more broadly, there are many kinds of things in society that need to
be produced: private goods, public goods, accurate information, good
governance decisions, goods we don’t value now but will value in the future,
and so forth; the list goes on. Some of these things are easier to create
credibly neutral mechanisms for than others. And if we adopt an uncompromising
narrow-sense neutrality purism that says that only extremely credibly-neutral
mechanisms are acceptable, then only those problems for which such mechanisms
are easy to create will be solved. The community's other needs will see no
systematic support at all, and so broad-sense neutrality suffers.

Hence, the principle of credible neutrality, must also be augmented with
another idea, the principle of efficacy. A good mechanism is also a mechanism
that actually does solve the problems that we care about. Often, this means
that developers of even the most obviously credibly-neutral mechanisms should
be open to critique, as it’s very possible for a mechanism to be both credibly
neutral and terrible (as patents are [often argued to
be](https://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424127887324520904578553700647653828)).

Sometimes, this even means that if a credibly neutral mechanism to solve some
problem has not yet been found, an imperfectly neutral mechanism should be
adopted in the short term. Premines and time-limited developer rewards in
blockchains are one example of this; using centralized methods for detecting
accounts that represent a unique human and filtering out others when
decentralized methods are not yet available is another. But recognizing
credible neutrality as something that is very valuable, and striving to get
closer to that ideal over time, is nevertheless important.

If one is truly concerned about an imperfectly neutral mechanism leading to
loss of trust or political capture, then there are ways to adopt a “fail-safe”
approach to implementing it. For example, one can direct transaction fees and
not issuance toward developer funding, creating a “[Schelling
fence](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/Kbm6QnJv9dgWsPHQP/schelling-fences-on-
slippery-slopes)” limiting how much funding can be made. One can add time
limits, or an “ice age”, where the rewards fade away over time and must be
renewed explicitly. One can implement the mechanism inside of a “layer 2”
system, such as a rollup or an [eth2 execution
environment](https://twitter.com/MuteDialog/status/1207249423715229697), that
has _some_ network effect lock-in, but can be abandoned with coordinated
effort if the mechanism goes astray. When we foresee a possible breakdown in
voice, we can mitigate the risks by improving freedom of exit.

Credibly neutral mechanisms for solving many kinds of problems _do_ exist in
theory, and need to be developed and improved in practice. Examples include:

  * [Prediction markets](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prediction_market), eg. [electionbettingodds.com](http://electionbettingodds.com/) as a “credibly neutral” source of probabilities of who will win near-future elections (see also [Scott Alexander on this topic](https://www.overcomingbias.com/2013/01/hail-scott-siskind.html))
  * [Quadratic voting and funding](https://vitalik.ca/general/2019/12/07/quadratic.html) as a way of coming to agreement on matters of governance and public goods
  * [Harberger taxes](https://chicagounbound.uchicago.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?referer=&httpsredir=1&article=12668&context=journal_articles) as a more efficient alternative to pure property rights for allocating non-fungible and illiquid assets (eg. see thread: [capped Harberger taxes for domain names](https://twitter.com/VitalikButerin/status/1211095019890737152))
  * [Peer prediction](https://www.google.com/search?q=peer+prediction), a much more formalized version of the “meta-moderation” mentioned above
  * [Reputation systems involving transitive trust graphs](https://web.cs.ucdavis.edu/~defigued/index_files/trustdavis.pdf)

We do not yet know well what versions of ideas like these, and completely new
ones, will work well, and we will need many rounds of experimentation to
figure out what kinds of rules lead to good outcomes in different contexts.
The need to have the mechanism’s rules be open, but at the same time resistant
to attack, will be a particular challenge, though cryptographic developments
that allow open rules and verifiable execution and outputs together with
private inputs will make some things considerably easier.

We know in principle that it is completely possible to make such robust sets
of rules - as mentioned above, we’ve basically done it in many cases already.
But as the number of software-intermediated marketplaces of different forms
that we rely on keeps increasing, it becomes ever more important to make sure
that these systems do not end up giving power to a select few - whether the
operators of those platforms _or_ even more powerful forces that end up
capturing them - and instead create credible systems of rules that we can all
get behind.

[__](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://nakamoto.com/credible-
neutrality/)[__](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https://nakamoto.com/credible-
neutrality/&text=Credible%20Neutrality%20As%20A%20Guiding%20Principle)[__](https://pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https://nakamoto.com/credible-
neutrality/&media=&description=Credible%20Neutrality%20As%20A%20Guiding%20Principle)[__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://nakamoto.com/credible-
neutrality/&title=Credible%20Neutrality%20As%20A%20Guiding%20Principle)[__](https://reddit.com/submit?url=https://nakamoto.com/credible-
neutrality/&title=Credible%20Neutrality%20As%20A%20Guiding%20Principle)[__](https://www.tumblr.com/widgets/share/tool?canonicalUrl=https://nakamoto.com/credible-
neutrality/&title=Credible%20Neutrality%20As%20A%20Guiding%20Principle)[__](http://vk.com/share.php?url=https://nakamoto.com/credible-
neutrality/&title=Credible%20Neutrality%20As%20A%20Guiding%20Principle)[__](https://getpocket.com/edit?url=https://nakamoto.com/credible-
neutrality/)[__](https://t.me/share/url?url=https://nakamoto.com/credible-
neutrality/&text=Credible%20Neutrality%20As%20A%20Guiding%20Principle)

![Vitalik
Buterin](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw==)

#### Vitalik Buterin

[Website](https://vitalik.ca/) [Twitter](https://twitter.com/@vitalikbuterin)
[More posts](/author/vitalik/)

Cofounder and inventor of Ethereum.

[__Previous Post](/it-will-take-years-for-smart-people-to-understand-
cryptocurrencies/)

[Next Post __](/what-are-the-key-properties-of-bitcoin/)

Please enable JavaScript to view the [comments powered by
Disqus.](https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript)

[ NAKAMOTO ](https://nakamoto.com)

__

