[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Crossing the Crypto Chasm & Diffusion of Innovation

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Crossing the Crypto Chasm & Diffusion of Innovation

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Jamie-Burke-Hi-
Res-150x150.png)

May 2019

Posted by

Jamie Burke

CEO and Founder

 ...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/jamie-burke/)

## One of the big downsides of the Crypto Winter is that ‘falling tides lower
all ships’. Many promising projects are experiencing difficulties, while at
the same time, the advisors and support networks they rely on are rapidly
disappearing, and at a moment when they and the industry as a whole need them
the most to ‘cross the chasm’. At Outlier we’ve been thinking long and hard
about how we can help in the successful diffusion of our investment’s
innovations whilst extending our venture platform to fill the vacuum so its
value can be felt across the wider industry.

Posted by Jamie Burke - May 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Jamie-Burke-Hi-
Res-150x150.png)

May 2019

Posted by

Jamie Burke

CEO and Founder

 ...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/jamie-burke/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

> "This means today we are doubling down on our activities and launching a
> Diffusion Program dedicated to helping our portfolio engage with industry
> partners, academia, smart cities, developer communities and one another to
> increase interoperability, usability and adoption.
>
> As such we are planning to dedicate an estimated USD 30 million to growing
> our venture platform over the next 3 years, in addition to venture capital
> investments. This represents 5 x the entire operating budgets of a typical
> USD 100m venture capital fund (assuming a 2% management fee)"



## Understanding Diffusion Generally

Firstly, let’s define what we mean by diffusion in the context of a
technology. Diffusion is ‘the contagion of an innovation overcoming
psychological and sociological barriers in a social system’. It is the outcome
of the successful dissemination of an innovation. When purposeful, as opposed
to organic, it means designing for diffusion and taking additional steps early
in the innovation process to increase its chances of being noticed, positively
perceived, adopted, adapted, and implemented to successfully cross the
research-to-practice chasm and become sustained.





![Crossing the Crypto Chasm & Diffusion of Innovation Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/diffusioncontext-1200x848.jpg)This process is often
referred to as the diffusion curve and typical takes the shape of an S-Curve
plotted over time, starting with a take-off / tipping point. In reality most
innovations fail to diffuse at all and even when adopted experience a
significant lag across different types of user groups informed by the
characteristics of adopters, perceptions of opinion leaders, their social
influence, a larger social and political context, how proponents and opponents
frame an innovation and the timing of its introduction. The confluence of
these factors has been consistently shown to cluster into groupings of users
based on attitudes and towards innovation and risk as shown below.



![Crossing the Crypto Chasm & Diffusion of Innovation Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/diffusionpercentage-1200x848.jpg)

## The Diffusion of Tokenised Networks

At Outlier Ventures, we design for and invest in open source, tokenised,
internet protocols. As a relatively new subset of innovation with just 10
years of data since the inception of Bitcoin and arguably 4 years since its
first real peer Ethereum. As a consequence, in our planning we must address a
number of unknowns, wrestle with assumptions and emerging nuances with little
data but within the context and legacy of open source web innovation.

On the one hand, we have all glimpsed the promise of the emerging toolkit of
rules based distributed ledgers and the powerful economic incentives of
digitally scarce tokens to coordinate bottom-up adoption of and participation
in decentralised networks. On the other hand designing for truly global,
permissionless digital economies brings an order of magnitude of complexity
compared to startups or enterprise-driven innovation and yet at the same time
still needs to be adopted by and serve both as users.

The challenge the industry must now address after a period of frenzied
experimentation is how do we trigger real interest and demand from a critical
mass of actual users to benefit from our token mechanisms of incentives and
disincentives. To date, the adoption of token networks has largely been where
the economic incentive is greatest. Principally speculation in the potential
for new forms of native internet money, as a currency or store of value, and
more recently the crowdfunding of more complex use-cases. However, in most
instances, many early network participants have little to no ability, and in
some cases intention, of directly adopting the networks themselves as end-
users.

The diffusion of innovation is typically said to follow a pattern of ‘outside-
inside-outward’ contagion. Where diffusion begins on the periphery of a
relational network, is then adopted by a centre of leaders (aka early
adopters) and consequently spreads outwards again. But this process is
dependent on the centre’s ability to advocate for a technology that speaks to
a known and urgent problem or burning platform.

For us at Outlier and with our Convergence Thesis, our interest is principally
around data. Other than a handful of platform monopolies who have made our
‘digital exhaust’ the core of their business model through variations of
Googlenomics, the longtail of companies see Big Data as a liability and cost
centre rather than an opportunity. They have too much data to make sense of or
secure, and don’t have the capability to transform it into sustained
commercial value.

At the same time consumers are waking up to the fact Surveillance Capitalism,
and its ability to turn our experiences into predictive products they sell
back to advertisers, is becoming increasingly intrusive and at worst anti-
social. And governments, at least in the West, are now realising they must try
to tame this new economic cycle and data as an asset. When combined we believe
this creates a perfect storm of bottom up and top down momentum to power the
diffusion of a more decentralised Web and a new data economy.

Consequently, we believe we are now moving from a phase of ‘early innovators’
and adopters, who are naturally seeking new and novel innovations, to
onboarding the ‘early majority’ who only care about tangible improvements to
their ways of working or living, and where established habits die hard. So it
is the objective of Outlier to help innovators identify and engage segments of
the market where the need is greatest and capacity is sufficient to adopt and
implement the innovation to good effect. And furthermore, continue to support
the process post-dissemination to make sure innovations are sustained and
adaptive over time.

Equally, we acknowledge unpermissioned tokenised networks will initially be
the ‘outliers’ and will have to coexist with permissioned and untokenised
private networks as well as more generalised databases and distributed data
systems. Their ability to pragmatically integrate and become interoperable
will be key to their successful diffusion.

This will mean driving awareness and interest, enabling evaluation, trial and
adoption by a diverse ecosystem of participants as illustrated below. Within
institutions creating the motivation and ability for change, compatibility and
observability of innovation and for enabling regulators to create the
political mandate and permissions for it to thrive.



![Crossing the Crypto Chasm & Diffusion of Innovation Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/Untitled-e1554312613209.png)

## Outlier Ventures Diffusion Program

As such we are happy to announce our continued and deep commitment to
supporting our investments that we began over the last 5 years, where we have
reinvested the large majority of our gains back into developing a venture
platform of 30 people and a number of strategic partnerships such as Imperial
College research initiatives. However, we are now looking to expand upon these
existing activities and go one up to launch a number of new initiatives
detailed below.



![Crossing the Crypto Chasm & Diffusion of Innovation Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/tcs_002-1200x846-1200x846.jpg)

Central to this activity is the belief that our investments, due to the
strength of our thesis and a discipline of what we do and don’t invest in, has
formed a highly synergistic stack of technologies that complement and
accelerate one another. And when combined become a powerful toolkit, or stack,
that is easier to adopt and deploy in this new data economy.

We call it [**‘The Convergence
Stack’**](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-convergence-stack/) **.**
Below is how we look to diffuse it over the coming months.





Get Involved

If you are looking to engage with our Diffusion Program please get in touch
with the respective contacts below:  
Enterprise, Academia – [partnerships@outlierventures.io
](mailto:partnerships@outlierventures.io)  
Developers and integrators –
[developers@outlierventures.io](mailto:developers@outlierventures.io)  
Startups –
[investment@outlierventures.io](mailto:investment@outlierventures.io)

—————————————————————————-

The framing of diffusion has been heavily inspired by: Diffusion of Innovation
Theory, Principles & Practice James W Dearing & Jeffery G Cox

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

