[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Crypto Regulation: A crossroads?

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Crypto Regulation: A crossroads?

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/CD-HS-150x150.jpg)

October 2020

Posted by

Chris Donovan

Head of Legal

Chris also works closely with Base Camp and Ascent projects helping them
navigate through the legal and regulatory complexities of Web3....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/chris-donovan/)

### When looked at in isolation, recent developments in crypto regulation and
enforcement can paint quite a bleak picture. But it hasn't all been bad news.

Posted by Chris Donovan - October 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/CD-HS-150x150.jpg)

October 2020

Posted by

Chris Donovan

Head of Legal

Chris also works closely with Base Camp and Ascent projects helping them
navigate through the legal and regulatory complexities of Web3....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/chris-donovan/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

Earlier in October, here in the UK the FCA published final rules banning the
sale of derivatives and ETNs that reference certain types of cryptoassets to
retail investors (coming into effect on 6 January 2021); despite the fact that
97% of respondents to the original consultation opposed the ban. When you
review the FCA’s final rules, one point that particularly stands out is the
FCA’s claim that underlying cryptoassets have ‘no inherent value’.

Over in the US, the Department of Justice recently announced its
Cryptocurrency Enforcement Framework, outlining the DOJ’s enforcement strategy
and its views about the legitimate (a short, sceptical section) and
illegitimate (the bulk of the report) uses of cryptocurrency, that some worry
is an attack on digital privacy following hot on the heels of a statement from
the Five Eyes intelligence alliance (plus Japan and India) calling for back-
door access to encrypted messaging services and other systems.

Last week the US District Court for the Southern District of New York, having
previously ruled that Kik Interactive’s Kin token sale violated US securities
law, approved Kik’s USD$5m settlement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (although the settlement does not require the registration of Kin
tokens as securities).

But it hasn’t all been bad news.

In Europe, the European Commission in late September published its proposal
for the Markets in Crypto Assets Regulation (MiCA), a sweeping (168 page!)
piece of legislation overhauling the treatment of cryptoassets throughout the
EU (which, subject to any further changes, is expected to come into force
towards the end of 2022).

MiCA is sensible and represents a relatively even-handed regulatory approach,
providing much needed harmonisation across EU Member States in the treatment
of currently out-of-scope cryptoassets (and which will enable businesses to
passport authorisation obtained in one Member State throughout the EEA). It
does however take clear aim at stablecoins with a series of new, onerous
compliance obligations imposed on stablecoin issuers which seems to be a
reaction to the perceived threat of Libra.

In the US, two promising crypto-related bills have been recently introduced in
the House of Representatives. The first, dubbed the ‘Securities Clarity Act’,
would establish a distinction between securities and tokens by confirming that
tokens underlying investment contracts (such as SAFTs) are not themselves
securities (and instead should be treated as commodities). This is
particularly significant following recent US Court decisions against Telegram
and Kik (amongst others) earlier this year which have fundamentally called
into question the validity of the SAFT token sale model.

The second bill, called the ‘Digital Commodity Exchange Act’, aims to
introduce an opt-in national regulatory framework in the US for digital
commodity trading platforms (i.e. crypto exchanges) that would bring exchanges
under the jurisdiction of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC)
(rather than the SEC), and which would harmonise regulatory treatment of
cryptoassets as commodities at the federal level (rather than on a state-by-
state basis, as it is currently).

There is a long way to go but these bills - _if enacted_ - could bring
fundamental and much needed changes to the regulatory landscape in the US.

We are now at a significant crossroads.

Regulation can provide welcome certainty, stability and protection for retail
consumers but where it is inconsistently and disproportionately applied it can
stifle innovation and cause confusion; particularly when it’s driven by policy
decisions that are at odds with the views of the crypto community and the
ever-increasing rates of adoption of the underlying technology (PayPal
recently announced that it would allow its customers in the US to buy, hold
and sell cryptocurrency). As is often the case, a balance needs to be struck.

Regulators and legislators globally are facing a choice: do they implement
much-needed updates to legislation and regulation that is, in some cases, more
than 70 years old; or continue to rely on out-of-date regulatory and
enforcement regimes that produce inconsistent and unfair results.

Those who make the right choice stand to benefit hugely.

In the UK, an HM Treasury consultation has just concluded on the question of
whether unregulated cryptoassets (termed ‘unregulated tokens’ in the UK)
should be brought within the scope of the UK’s financial promotions rules. I
recently participated in an excellent CryptoUK working group with many leading
contributors to the industry encouraging HMT to adopt a balanced, appropriate
approach. We hope HMT will listen.

With Brexit on the horizon, the UK has the opportunity and the freedom to
become a world-leading crypto jurisdiction by imposing proportionate, clear
regulation and embracing these exciting new technologies.

Will it make the most of this opportunity?

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

