For better experience, please enable JavaScript.

[Multicoin Capital](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * Media
  * More
  * [Contact](/contact/)

![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyB3aWR0aD0iMjQiIGhlaWdodD0iMjciIHZpZXdCb3g9IjAgMCAyNCAyNyIgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgeG1sbnM9Imh0dHA6Ly93d3cudzMub3JnLzIwMDAvc3ZnIj4KPHBhdGggZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBjbGlwLXJ1bGU9ImV2ZW5vZGQiIGQ9Ik0xMiAzLjI0MzIxTDMgMFYyMEwxMiAxNy4wMjdWMy4yNDMyMVoiIGZpbGw9IiM0QTRBNEEiLz4KPHBhdGggZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBjbGlwLXJ1bGU9ImV2ZW5vZGQiIGQ9Ik0xMiAzLjI0MzExTDIxIDBWMjBMMTIgMTcuMDI3VjMuMjQzMTFaIiBmaWxsPSIjRkZGRkZFIi8+CjxwYXRoIGZpbGwtcnVsZT0iZXZlbm9kZCIgY2xpcC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBkPSJNMCAyM0wxMSAxOS4yNjY4VjNMMCA2LjczMzE1VjIzWiIgZmlsbD0iI0ZGRkZGRSIvPgo8cGF0aCBmaWxsLXJ1bGU9ImV2ZW5vZGQiIGNsaXAtcnVsZT0iZXZlbm9kZCIgZD0iTTE3IDIzTDE4Ljk2NDIgMjZMMjAgMjMuMjEzMkwxNyAyM1oiIGZpbGw9IiM0QTRBNEEiLz4KPHBhdGggZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBjbGlwLXJ1bGU9ImV2ZW5vZGQiIGQ9Ik00LjAxNTE2IDguNTEzNjhDMy45NTA5OCA4LjQzMTkgNC4wOTg3NSA5LjE4MTg4IDQuMzA0NDEgOS40NTE2OUM0LjY2OTA3IDkuOTI4OTkgNC45NTM5MiA5Ljk5MDQ5IDUuMTA1NTcgOS45OTgzOEM1LjQ0MTE3IDEwLjAxNTggNS44NTUzMyA5Ljg4OTk0IDYuMTAxMjcgOS43NTYxOUM2LjMzOTI0IDkuNjI0NDggNi43NTYyMyA5LjM0ODI4IDYuOTE0MDcgOC45NDU0QzYuOTQ3NTIgOC44NTkyNyA3LjAzODg3IDguNzE0NjQgNi45ODE1IDguMzU3MzRDNi45Mzc5OCA4LjA4MjUgNi44MDMxMSA3Ljk4NjMgNi42Mzg2NiA4LjAwMTU0QzYuNDc0MjEgOC4wMTU5NiA1Ljk3NjM2IDguMTg4MjIgNS43MzU1NiA4LjI4NDI4QzUuNDk0NjYgOC4zNzkxMSA0Ljk5ODQ5IDguNTc1MDQgNC43ODIyMyA4LjYzNTg2QzQuNTY2NSA4LjY5NjU0IDQuMDkwODggOC42MDc3IDQuMDE1MTYgOC41MTM2OFoiIGZpbGw9IiM0QTRBNEEiLz4KPHBhdGggZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBjbGlwLXJ1bGU9ImV2ZW5vZGQiIGQ9Ik05Ljc2NDY3IDE0LjYxNTlDOS42NzM0NCAxNC41ODM2IDcuNzg1ODcgMTMuODIxMiA3LjUxODMgMTMuNjk2MkM3LjI5OTM2IDEzLjU5MzYgNi43NjI1MSAxMy4zNzIzIDYuNTA5OTEgMTMuMjcxN0M3LjIyMTM5IDEyLjIwMjEgNy42NzA1MyAxMS4zOTQ5IDcuNzMwMzEgMTEuMjcxOUM3Ljg0MDkzIDExLjA0NyA4LjU5NDAxIDkuNjEwMSA4LjYxMTU5IDkuNTIxNjNDOC42Mjg2OCA5LjQzMTk4IDguNjUwMDggOS4xMDA4NCA4LjYzMzUgOS4wMjIxNkM4LjYxNjkyIDguOTQxOTIgOC4zNDA4MSA5LjA5NjEzIDcuOTY1OTMgOS4yMjAwN0M3LjU5MDQ1IDkuMzQzNTEgNi44NzY4NiA5Ljc5NjA1IDYuNjAxMjUgOS44NTI3OEM2LjMyNDY0IDkuOTA5MDEgNS40NDA2NCAxMC4yMzU2IDQuOTg4MjkgMTAuMzgxOUM0LjUzNTk0IDEwLjUyODMgMy42ODAyOCAxMC43ODI5IDMuMzI4MzEgMTAuODc1NkMyLjk3NTgzIDEwLjk2ODMgMi42NjgxNyAxMC45NzU2IDIuNDcxMDQgMTEuMDMzOUMyLjQ3MTA0IDExLjAzMzkgMi40OTcyNiAxMS4zMDMyIDIuNTQ5NjEgMTEuMzgzOUMyLjYwMTM2IDExLjQ2NDYgMi43ODc4NCAxMS42NjI1IDMuMDA0NjcgMTEuNzE3OEMzLjIyMTUgMTEuNzczNCAzLjU4MDQgMTEuNzUxMSAzLjc0Mzg4IDExLjcxNDdDMy45MDcyNiAxMS42Nzc2IDQuMTkwMyAxMS41NDI4IDQuMjI4MjggMTEuNDgzOUM0LjI2NjY2IDExLjQyNDEgNC4yMDg0OSAxMS4yMzk3IDQuMjczMDkgMTEuMTgzOUM0LjMzODMgMTEuMTI4OCA1LjE5OTc5IDEwLjkzMjQgNS41MjUwNCAxMC44MzY2QzUuODUwMjggMTAuNzM5MSA3LjA5NTI5IDEwLjMyMSA3LjI2NDEgMTAuMzQyM0M3LjIxMDY0IDEwLjUxNTMgNi4yMDkxOSAxMi40NDk0IDUuODg2NjYgMTMuMDI2NUM1LjU2NDAyIDEzLjYwMzUgMy42ODk5MiAxNi4xNDE4IDMuMjkwOTMgMTYuNTg5MkMyLjk4ODA5IDE2LjkyOTMgMi4yNTQyMSAxNy43OTk0IDIgMTcuOTk1OEMyLjA2NDEgMTguMDEzIDIuNTE4NTYgMTcuOTc1IDIuNjAxMzYgMTcuOTI1QzMuMTE3MzEgMTcuNjE1MiAzLjk3NjY5IDE2LjU3MiA0LjI1MzQgMTYuMjU0M0M1LjA3NTkxIDE1LjMxMzggNS43OTg1NCAxNC4zMjU4IDYuMzcxNTYgMTMuNDc4SDYuMzcyMTZDNi40ODM3OSAxMy41MjMzIDcuMzg2MzggMTQuMjQwNCA3LjYyMTg5IDE0LjM5OTNDNy44NTc0MSAxNC41NTgxIDguNzg2ODMgMTUuMDYzOCA4Ljk4ODE4IDE1LjE0NzZDOS4xODk1NCAxNS4yMzI2IDkuOTYzNDEgMTUuNTgwNSA5Ljk5NTk3IDE1LjQ2MjdDMTAuMDI4NSAxNS4zNDQgOS44NTYgMTQuNjQ5NyA5Ljc2NDY3IDE0LjYxNTlaIiBmaWxsPSIjNEE0QTRBIi8+CjxwYXRoIGZpbGwtcnVsZT0iZXZlbm9kZCIgY2xpcC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBkPSJNNC44NjU4NyAyNC4zMTQ1QzUuMDUzNjUgMjQuNDQ3NiA1LjIzMSAyNC41NTY1IDUuNDI5MjEgMjQuNjY1M0M1LjgyNTYzIDI0Ljg5NTIgNi4yNzQyMiAyNS4xMzcxIDYuNzAxOTQgMjUuMzE4NUM3LjI4NjE0IDI1LjU3MjYgNy44NzAzNCAyNS43NzgyIDguNDU0NTUgMjUuOTM1NUM4Ljc3Nzk0IDI2LjAyMDIgOS4xMzI2NCAyNi4wOTI3IDkuNDc2OSAyNi4xNTMyQzkuNTA4MiAyNi4xNTMyIDEwLjQzNjcgMjYuMjg2MyAxMC42MjQ0IDI2LjI4NjNIMTEuNTYzM0MxMS45Mjg1IDI2LjI1IDEyLjI3MjcgMjYuMjI1OCAxMi42Mzc5IDI2LjE2NTNDMTIuOTMgMjYuMTE2OSAxMy4yNTM0IDI2LjA1NjUgMTMuNTY2MyAyNS45NzE4QzEzLjc5NTggMjUuOTExMyAxNC4wMzU4IDI1Ljg1MDggMTQuMjY1MyAyNS43NjYxQzE0LjQ4NDQgMjUuNjkzNSAxNC43MzQ3IDI1LjU5NjggMTQuOTc0NyAyNS41QzE1LjEzMTEgMjUuNDM5NSAxNS4yOTgxIDI1LjM1NDggMTUuNDY1IDI1LjI4MjNDMTUuNjAwNiAyNS4yMDk3IDE1Ljc2NzUgMjUuMTI1IDE1LjkyNCAyNS4wNTI0QzE2LjExMTggMjQuOTU1NiAxNi4zMzA4IDI0LjgyMjYgMTYuNTM5NSAyNC43MDE2QzE2LjcwNjQgMjQuNjA0OCAxNi44OTQyIDI0LjQ4MzkgMTcuMDcxNSAyNC4zNjI5QzE3LjIwNzIgMjQuMjc4MiAxNy41MjAxIDI0IDE3LjY4NyAyNEMxNy44NzQ4IDI0IDE4IDI0LjE5MzUgMTggMjQuMzYyOUMxOCAyNC43MTM3IDE3LjU5MzEgMjQuODIyNiAxNy40MDU0IDI0Ljk3OThDMTcuMjA3MiAyNS4xMzcxIDE2Ljk2NzIgMjUuMjU4MSAxNi43NTg2IDI1LjM5MTFDMTYuMzQxMyAyNS42NDUyIDE1LjkxMzYgMjUuODYyOSAxNS41MDY3IDI2LjA0NDRDMTQuOTc0NyAyNi4yNzQyIDE0LjM5MDUgMjYuNDkxOSAxMy44Njg5IDI2LjYzNzFDMTMuNjcwNiAyNi42ODU1IDEzLjQ3MjQgMjYuNzQ2IDEzLjI3NDIgMjYuNzgyM0MxMy4xNjk5IDI2LjgwNjUgMTIuMDg0OSAyNyAxMS43ODI0IDI3SDEwLjQwNTRDMTAuMDQwMiAyNi45NjM3IDkuNjU0MjUgMjYuOTE1MyA5LjI4OTEyIDI2Ljg1NDhDOC45NjU3MiAyNi43OTQ0IDguNjIxNDYgMjYuNzIxOCA4LjI5ODA2IDI2LjYzNzFDOC4wNDc2OSAyNi41NzY2IDcuNzc2NDUgMjYuNDkxOSA3LjUzNjUxIDI2LjQwNzNDNy4xMTkyMyAyNi4yNzQyIDYuNzEyMzcgMjYuMTA0OCA2LjMxNTk1IDI1LjkyMzRDNS41OTYxMyAyNS42MDg5IDQuODQ1MDEgMjUuMTk3NiA0LjEzNTYyIDI0LjY1MzJDNC4wMTA0MyAyNC41NTY1IDQgMjQuNDU5NyA0IDI0LjM1MDhDNCAyNC4xNjk0IDQuMTE0NzUgMjQgNC4zMDI1MyAyNEM0LjQ2OTQ1IDI0IDQuODAzMjggMjQuMjc4MiA0Ljg2NTg3IDI0LjMxNDVaIiBmaWxsPSIjNEE0QTRBIi8+CjxtYXNrIGlkPSJtYXNrMCIgbWFzay10eXBlPSJhbHBoYSIgbWFza1VuaXRzPSJ1c2VyU3BhY2VPblVzZSIgeD0iMCIgeT0iMCIgd2lkdGg9IjIxIiBoZWlnaHQ9IjI0Ij4KPHBhdGggZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBjbGlwLXJ1bGU9ImV2ZW5vZGQiIGQ9Ik0wIDAuMDAwMzY2MjExSDIxVjI0SDBWMC4wMDAzNjYyMTFaIiBmaWxsPSJ3aGl0ZSIvPgo8L21hc2s+CjxnIG1hc2s9InVybCgjbWFzazApIj4KPHBhdGggZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBjbGlwLXJ1bGU9ImV2ZW5vZGQiIGQ9Ik0xMS42Njk5IDMuNDc0ODlWMTkuOTY1N0MxMS42NjAyIDIwLjAxNDggMTEuNjQxIDIwLjA2MzggMTEuNjAyNSAyMC4xMTI5QzExLjU4MzIgMjAuMTQyNCAxMS41NDQ3IDIwLjE4MTYgMTEuNTE1OCAyMC4xOTE1QzExLjI3NTEgMjAuMjg5NiAwLjQzMzI4OCAyNCAwLjI4ODg1OCAyNEMwLjE3MzMxNSAyNCAwLjA2NzQwMDMgMjMuOTIxNSAwLjAwOTYyODYxIDIzLjc5MzlDMC4wMDk2Mjg2MSAyMy43ODQxIDAgMjMuNzc0MyAwIDIzLjc1NDZWNy4yNTQwM0MwLjAxOTI1NzIgNy4yMDQ5NSAwLjAyODg4NTggNy4xMzYyNCAwLjA2NzQwMDMgNy4wOTY5OEMwLjE0NDQyOSA2Ljk4OSAwLjI3OTIzIDYuOTY5MzcgMC4zNjU4ODcgNi45Mzk5MkMwLjUyOTU3NCA2Ljg4MTAzIDExLjIwNzcgMy4yMjk0OSAxMS4zNjE4IDMuMjI5NDlDMTEuNDU4IDMuMjI5NDkgMTEuNjY5OSAzLjI5ODIgMTEuNjY5OSAzLjQ3NDg5Wk0xMS4wODI1IDE5LjcyMDNMMC41ODczNDUgMjMuMjgzNVY3LjQ5OTQzTDExLjA4MjUgMy45MzYyNFYxOS43MjAzWiIgZmlsbD0iIzRBNEE0QSIvPgo8cGF0aCBmaWxsLXJ1bGU9ImV2ZW5vZGQiIGNsaXAtcnVsZT0iZXZlbm9kZCIgZD0iTTIxIDAuMzE0MTFWMjAuMTcxOEMyMC45OTA0IDIwLjM5NzUgMjAuODM2MyAyMC40OTU3IDIwLjY5MTkgMjAuNDk1N0MyMC41NjY3IDIwLjQ5NTcgMTkuNjYxNiAyMC4xODE2IDE5LjUwNzYgMjAuMTMyNUMxOC4yOTQ0IDE5Ljc0OTcgMTcuMDcxNSAxOS4zNjY5IDE1Ljg2OCAxOC45ODRDMTUuNTk4NCAxOC44OTU3IDE1LjMxOTEgMTguODA3NCAxNS4wNTkyIDE4LjcxOUMxNC44MjgxIDE4LjY1MDMgMTQuNTc3NyAxOC41NzE4IDE0LjM0NjYgMTguNDkzM0MxMy4zMTY0IDE4LjE2OTMgMTIuMjY2OSAxNy44NDU0IDExLjIzNjYgMTcuNDkyQzExLjE5ODEgMTcuNDgyMiAxMS4xMDE4IDE3LjM0NDggMTEuMTAxOCAxNy4zMTUzVjMuNDQ1NEMxMS4xMjExIDMuMzk2MzIgMTEuMTQwMyAzLjMzNzQyIDExLjE4ODUgMy4yOTgxNkMxMS4yNjU1IDMuMjA5ODIgMTQuNTY4MSAyLjA5MDggMTUuODY4IDEuNjQ5MDhDMTYuMjE0NiAxLjUyMTQ3IDIwLjU1NzEgMCAyMC42OTE5IDBDMjAuODY1MiAwIDIxIDAuMTI3NjA3IDIxIDAuMzE0MTFaTTIwLjQxMjcgMTkuNzk4OEwxMS42Nzk1IDE3LjAzMDdWMy43MzAwNkwyMC40MTI3IDAuNzA2NzQ4VjE5Ljc5ODhaIiBmaWxsPSIjNEE0QTRBIi8+CjwvZz4KPHBhdGggZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBjbGlwLXJ1bGU9ImV2ZW5vZGQiIGQ9Ik0yNCAyM0wxMiAxOS4yNjRMMTIuMDUwMiAzTDI0IDYuNzE1MVYyM1oiIGZpbGw9IiM0QTRBNEEiLz4KPHBhdGggZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBjbGlwLXJ1bGU9ImV2ZW5vZGQiIGQ9Ik0xNy40ODc2IDhMMTkuMDg2NyA4LjQ0MTAxTDIyIDE4TDIwLjM1NzUgMTcuNTQ2M0wxOS43Njc0IDE1LjU4MzlMMTYuMzczIDE0LjY0NzJMMTUuNjQzIDE2LjI0NThMMTQgMTUuNzkyMUwxNy40ODc2IDhaTTE4LjIxODcgMTAuNTMwNkwxNy4wMDA1IDEzLjIxMTRMMTkuMjQwMiAxMy44Mjk1TDE4LjIxODcgMTAuNTMwNloiIGZpbGw9IiNGRkZGRkUiLz4KPC9zdmc+Cg==)

  * [English](/2019/04/24/multicoin-investment-thesis/)
  * [中文](/zh/2019/04/24/multicoin-investment-thesis/)
  * [한국어](/ko/2019/04/24/multicoin-investment-thesis/)
  * 日本語

![](data:image/png;base64,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)

### Search posts

dark mode

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

  * [Archives](https://github.com/multicoincapital/crypto-archives)
  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)

[Featured](/blog/category/featured/)

## Crypto Mega Theses

By [Kyle Samani](/about#225b2112-7be1-5fc9-8755-db7e245ba5a5)

April 24, 2019 | 16 minute read

![Copy URL to clipboard
button](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

[Read Full
Report](https://assets.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/5f1FAdRDF71JzD7CG5ZHeL/f0d52e3ae3b8c7bcfc63d8f29d004e76/Crypto_Mega_Theses.pdf)

下载翻译 | [Download Mandarin
Translation](https://www.dropbox.com/s/8ar383jn7pb90ej/%E7%99%BE%E4%B8%87%E4%BA%BF%E7%BE%8E%E5%85%83%E7%9A%84%E5%8A%A0%E5%AF%86%E8%B4%A7%E5%B8%81%E4%B8%BB%E9%A2%98%20%281%29.pdf?dl=0
"Multicoin Capital: Crypto Mega Theses")

### Introduction

Open, distributed ledgers and permissionless, censorship-resistant, trust-
minimized computation are going to reshape massive sectors of the global
economy. This belief led us to found Multicoin Capital in 2017, and after
spending two years with entrepreneurs, business leaders, and investors in this
space, we’ve developed more conviction in this thesis than ever before.

Over the last few years, the breadth of use cases within the crypto ecosystem
has exploded. Given this breadth, it can be difficult to define the underlying
macro theses when use cases span non-seizable assets, censorship-resistant
prediction markets, peer-to-peer wireless networks, new online advertising
systems, and jurisdiction-less enterprises.

The purpose of this essay is to define and articulate the three mega
investment theses for crypto. We define mega investment theses as those in
which the addressable market is measured in the trillions of 2019 USD.

We expect these theses to play out over a decade or longer and to generate the
vast majority of our returns. In the rough order that we expect them to
develop:

 **Open finance.** By making units of value—stocks, bonds, real estate,
currencies, etc.—interoperable, programmable, and composable on open ledgers,
capital markets will become more accessible and efficient. Just as the
proliferation of capital markets over the last 100 years enabled staggering
levels of wealth creation, open finance will make capital markets more
efficient and accessible to everyone on the planet.

 **Web3**. The Web3 vision is about empowering consumers to control their own
data, as opposed to the status quo in which tech giants, credit bureaus,
advertisers, healthcare providers, etc. hoard consumer data. As this paradigm
shifts, incumbents will lose their primary competitive advantage—their data
monopolies and [associated network effects](http://mattturck.com/the-power-of-
data-network-effects/ "The Power of Network Effects")—creating massive
opportunities for new value creation.

 **Global, state-free money.** In simple terms, one can think of this as
digital gold. However, we find that the “digital gold” framing is too narrow
and substantially understates the opportunity. Global, state-free money is a
superset of digital gold in terms of breadth and use cases, and represents a
[dramatically larger addressable
market](https://multicoin.capital/2018/10/09/100-trillion/ "$100 Trillion").

##  **Preface: Trust**

The common theme underlying these theses is reducing trust between transacting
parties. The modern economy is built on compounding layers of trust. We trust
tech giants, banks, insurance companies, the government, and more every minute
of every day.

We trust so many institutions that we take for granted just how many layers of
trust the economy is built on. When we’re born and raised with certain trust
assumptions, we don’t even recognize them as assumptions anymore. Given global
complexity, detecting abuses of trust is more difficult than ever before (e.g.
Facebook + Cambridge Analytica, Marriott/Target hacks, Equifax hack, etc.).

For the first time in human history, using open networks bound by cryptography
and free-market economics, we can incentivize specific human behaviors without
creating new trust assumptions. This is a subtle but profound shift.

This is not to say that trust is intrinsically a bad thing. However, all risk
is built on trust. By creating a world with fewer trust assumptions, we can
reduce systemic risk, and create ultimately healthier and more productive
economies and societies.

##  **Thesis: Open Finance**

The Open Finance thesis is sometimes referred to as decentralized finance, or
DeFi. However, we prefer the term Open Finance, as the level of
(de)centralization is not the basis of the investment thesis. Decentralization
is simply a means to open finance.

Trust is the foundation on top of which all financial services are built.

Although large and mature capital markets are generally efficient today, they
are still nowhere close to being universally accessible. This is true both in
developed markets and in developing economies.

The key innovation enabling open finance is the modularization of financial
primitives. By modularizing financial primitives, the open finance stack
commoditizes trust such that no application has a unique trust advantage over
any other.

Modularizing financial primitives is an abstract concept. What exactly does it
mean to modularize financial primitives?

Over the last 24 months, a number of open finance protocols have launched. All
of these protocols are modular, and are being used by higher-level
applications (and often combined). None of these protocols market to end-
customers, provide customer service, or deal with local laws. These protocols
are just pieces of code that live on blockchains. This is comparable to how
email is built on a suite of open protocols like SMTP, TCP/IP, and HTML/JS to
render email in the browser.

For example, let’s consider [BlitzPredict](https://www.blitzpredict.io/ "Blitz
Predict") (BP). BP is an exchange focused on sports betting built on top of
the [Augur](https://www.augur.net/ "Augur"), [0x](https://0x.org/ "0x"), and
(in the near future) [Maker](https://makerdao.com/ "Maker Dao") protocols. BP
relies on the Augur protocol as a means to create different kinds of markets,
create shares in those outcomes, and ultimately resolve markets. BP relies on
the 0x protocol to trade shares between users. And BP will soon rely on the
Maker protocol for its collateralized stablecoin, DAI, to denominate trades.
Each of these protocols function independently. Because they are modular, a
higher-level application like BP can combine the underlying financial
primitives to produce a trust-minimized user experience that was never before
possible.

![open
finance](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/65LciGuAo6MiHeh3MO8dZE/d3673eeec21c840cf93818b3c1e7559d/open_finance.png)

Just as the cloud commoditized server deployments, enabling a step-function
improvement in the rate of innovation in large-scale web applications,
modularizing financial primitives will enable a step-function improvement in
the rate of innovation in all financial services.

Because Open Finance is…open, anyone will be able to build local businesses on
top of open finance protocols. This is how open finance will enable the un-
and under-banked to access financial services. Protocols will not serve
consumers. Businesses that navigate local regulations, and provide localized
customer service, will serve consumers instead.

A great example of this is the [UMA protocol](https://umaproject.org/ "UMA
Project"). UMA protocol is a platform that enables two parties to enter into a
contract for difference (CFD) that constantly and automatically rebalances as
the price of the underlying asset moves in real time. The first product built
on the UMA protocol was [synthetic exposure to the S&P
500](https://medium.com/uma-project/announcing-us-stock-index-token-powered-
by-uma-and-dai-c394586c575a "Announcing US Stock Index Token"). The UMA team
is based in the US, and they are not a registered broker-dealer. The UMA team
is not trading using the protocol they built.

Instead, market makers around the world are providing liquidity and hedging
out their risk on the traditional capital markets, allowing anyone in the
world to get exposure to the S&P 500 without paying any fees (UMA takes no
fees), without going through any intermediaries, and without taking on any
counterparty risk (the UMA smart contract acts as a trust-minimized escrow
agent for the collateral that each party posts). As the 4 - 5B who are un- and
under-banked around the world gain access to digital money, they’re naturally
going to want to invest in assets that they don’t have access to. The rules
that govern the U.S. equity markets make it challenging for this subset of
individuals to get the access they want. However, using protocols like UMA,
global financial inclusion will become possible for the first time in human
history.

We cannot overstate the magnitude of this breakthrough. For the first time,
financial markets can be global, permissionless, and for many kinds of
derivative contracts, free of counterparty risk. This was impossible until
recently.

The world’s financial market infrastructure will move to the Open Finance
stack because the Open Finance stack enables millions of businesses—those that
are local, national, and international in scale—to offer trust-minimized
financial products to the people and businesses who need them most. Unlike
legacy financial institutions, the next generation of crypto-native businesses
won’t need to be trustworthy, nor will they need to build any new or
particularly novel technology. The open finance stack will commoditize the
financial primitives on top of which all transactions occur, enabling truly
fluid capital flow across asset classes and jurisdictions. As these crypto-
native businesses flourish, incumbents will be forced to switch to the Open
Finance stack as well.

Open finance is not theoretical. It is happening now, and we expect this mega
trend to compound over the next decade. In the last 18 months, the amount of
capital locked in open finance smart contracts has grown from $0 to over
[$400M](https://defipulse.com/ "Defi Pulse").

![eth in open
finance](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/7wkkvS6rb2Dx7QZQEV6JRb/806d5d7c2678e9bef495a48bead115d8/eth_in_open_finance.png)

We’ve been evaluating and investing in open finance protocols and companies
since the inception of the fund in 2017. Examples include protocols like
Augur, Maker, and 0x and companies building on these protocols such as
[Dharma](https://www.dharma.io/ "Dharma"), BlitzPredict, and [Radar
Relay](https://radarrelay.com/ "Radar Relay") (note: these are illustrative
examples. Multicoin Capital is not necessarily invested in all of them).

##  **Thesis: Web3**

Analogous to how Open Finance is predicated on the modularization of financial
primitives, Web3 is based on unbundling of data ownership and application
logic. Historically, Web2 applications bundled data storage and application
logic. The paradigmatic shift in Web3 is the unbundling of data and
application logic. By unbundling what was previously bundled, data owners
won’t need to trust application providers with their data.

Chris Dixon of a16z Crypto laid out the Web3 thesis in [Why Decentralization
Matters](https://medium.com/s/story/why-decentralization-matters-5e3f79f7638e
"Why Decentralization Matters"). Dixon argues that centralized platforms like
Google and Facebook, because of their fiduciary obligations to shareholders,
inherently transition from providing value to extracting value from their
respective ecosystems, as shown below:

![cooperate
compete](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/6oTvCZRTOAdHrYDl5VNYeD/a916b8bd6405d3bf91a0d391dcfacd7c/cooperate_compete.png)

Building on Dixon’s essay, we’ll define Web3 more specifically: Web3 is about
self-sovereign ownership and control of data. This is a corollary to Dixon’s
characterisation of decentralization of networks: If networks become
decentralized, there will not be a central server that owns and controls user
data; instead, users will own and control their own data.

The high-level architectural differences between Web2 and Web3 are clear: In
the Web2 model, companies control closed databases and own—both technically
and legally—user data. In the Web3 model, users own their own encrypted data
on architecturally open networks like the [Interplanetary Filesystem
(IPFS)](https://ipfs.io/ "ipfs"), and interact with one another using
cryptographically signed messages on smart contract platforms that act as
open, programmable ledgers.

Today, internet monopolies use consumer data against the best interest of
their users (e.g. unauthorized sharing and selling of user data or pervasive
web surveillance). Furthermore, data monopolies prevent innovation by limiting
the types of applications that can be built on top of these valuable datasets.

When users own their own data, data monopologies will crumble. The second and
third order effects of this will create massive new opportunities. In the same
way that no one could accurately forecast the compounding rate of software
innovation built on top of operating systems in the 1980s, or the emergence of
web applications composed of dozens of cloud services in 2009, breaking down
data silos will empower the greatest developer
[coopetition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coopetition "Coopetition") (when
competitors cooperate) the world has ever seen. About a year ago, we
[described](https://multicoin.capital/2018/04/09/opportunities-for-blockchain-
based-social-apps/ "Opportunities for Blockchain-Based Social Apps") what
developer coopetition could look like (albeit in a rather rudimentary way) in
the context of social media applications.

It’s hard to imagine how a set of companies built on the [Web3
stack](https://multicoin.capital/2018/07/10/the-web3-stack/ "The Web3 Stack")
will displace incumbents with data monopolies built on the Web2 stack. Perhaps
the most salient argument against Web3 is “Consumers don’t care about privacy
or data ownership.”

We agree. Consumers will not switch to Web3-based alternatives for ideological
reasons. They will switch for utilitarian reasons.

As the Web3 stack matures, developers and entrepreneurs will explicitly choose
to build applications on the Web3 stack instead of on the Web2 stack. Why?
Because entrepreneurs have learned not to trust Web2 monopolies. As Dixon
noted in Why Dentralization Matters: “Over time, the best entrepreneurs,
developers, and investors have become wary of building on top of centralized
platforms. We now have decades of evidence that doing so will end in
disappointment.“

Thousands of companies from [Yelp](https://www.businessinsider.com/yelp-ceo-
on-google-2011-9 "Yelp CEO: Google Is A Monopolist That Screws Us Over, And
Here's How") to [Zynga](https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-20554441 "Facebook
and Zynga to end close relationship") to
[Buzzfeed](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/23/business/media/buzzfeed-
layoffs.html "BuzzFeed Plans Layoffs as It Aims to Turn Profit") have come to
realize that Web2 monopolies are not trustworthy platform providers. And so
developers and entrepreneurs will build on the Web3 stack, and find ways to
deliver better products and services to consumers.

![Zynga](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/1zm6qgRfdGpKaiW9rXb2Aj/4f631802586483cfc6e7004dc3f0b630/Zynga.png)

Let’s consider the [Tari protocol](https://www.tari.com/ "Tari"). The Tari
protocol is hyper-focused on digital asset issuance, and is starting off by
targeting tickets for concerts and other live events. The Tari team realized
there was an opportunity to rethink digital asset issuance and ticketing to
solve the two biggest problems in the industry: ticket fraud and scalpers.

Tari was founded by Naveen Jain, Dan Teree, and Riccardo Spagni. Naveen
previously ran technology for artists like Linkin Park, Bon Jovi, Lil Wayne,
and Carrie Underwood; Dan previously founded
[Ticketfly](http://www.ticketfly.com/ "Ticketfly"), which Pandora acquired for
$450M; and Riccardo is the lead maintainer of
[Monero](https://www.getmonero.org/ "Monero"), which is one of the oldest and
most valuable cryptocurrencies.

Entrepreneurs of this caliber know that Web2 monopolies like TicketMaster
cannot be trusted. They will never build on top of TicketMaster. Instead, they
choose to build on the Web3 stack.

The Web3 vision is extremely ambitious in scope. Until the birth of Ethereum,
no one was building software that supported self-sovereign user data. Building
a trust-minimized technology stack that rivals the performance and scale of
Web2 is a massive undertaking. Today, there are hundreds of teams all over the
world building the Web3 stack to support trust-minimized computation over
self-sovereign data.

The Web3 stack is still young. However, we can already see the first glimpses
of it in action, and we’re investing in protocols and companies that are
focusing on specific applications like Tari, and those that are building core
infrastructure for this new technology stack. We’ve invested in [The
Graph](https://thegraph.com/ "The Graph"), [Keep](https://keep.network/
"Keep"), [Livepeer](https://livepeer.org/ "LivePeer"),
[SKALE](https://skalelabs.com/ "Skale Labs"), [Spring
Labs](https://www.springlabs.com/ "Textile"),
[StarkWare](https://www.starkware.co/ "StartkWare"), and
[Textile](https://www.textile.io/ "Textile"), each of which is providing
critical infrastructure in the Web3 stack.

##  **Thesis: Global State-Free Money**

Because fiat money is bound by trust in human institutions rather than
physics, we have to place immense trust in the human institutions that govern
money.

There is a massive opportunity for a trust-minimized money. A natively
digital, bearer asset bound by physics, math, and free-market economics rather
than human institutions. That money will be the global, state-free measure of
value, i.e. money.

The simplest way to think about the opportunity for a global, state-free money
is digital gold. While this framing is not wrong, it dramatically understates
the opportunity.

It’s clear how modern layer 1 blockchain tokens such as Bitcoin are superior
to gold: Digital assets are infinitely divisible and globally transportable,
and their supply schedules are 100% auditable and transparent. Because of
these attributes, the opportunity for a state-free money far exceeds that of
gold. We’ve argued that the addressable market for this state-free money is
[$100 trillion](https://multicoin.capital/2018/10/09/100-trillion/ "$100
Trillion") while that of gold is [$7-8
trillion](http://www.onlygold.com/Info/All-The-Gold-In-The-World.asp "All The
Gold In The World"). A recap of the arguments we’ve previously laid out:

 **1) State-free money expands the market for gold** in the same way that Uber
expanded the market for taxis. The very people who most need inflation-
resistant money—the [500M
people](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_inflation_rate
"List of Countries by Inflation Rate") who live in countries with more than
10% annual inflation—cannot physically store their wealth in gold, and
generally do not have access to capital markets such that they can purchase
claims on gold in a vault.

![global state free
money](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/5bPn3kCwAuuJG8KACr09bL/87a7982f8ddb9d4584b3011acf21699c/global_state_free_money.png)

 **2) Counterintuitively, the super-wealthy want seizure-resistant assets**
even more than the people who live in hyper-inflationary countries. Their top
priority is not to lose their wealth, and cryptocurrencies act as a “Swiss
bank account in your head.” There are an estimated [$20-30
trillion](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-offshore-wealth/super-rich-
hold-32-trillion-in-offshore-havens-idUSBRE86L03U20120722 "Super rich hold $32
trillion in offshore havens") stashed in offshore bank accounts around the
world.

**3) Unlike gold—which offers no organic yield—blockchain-based monies
guarantee perpetual, positive, risk-free rates** (via staking in proof-of-
stake networks, and via [liquidity
routing](https://medium.com/@timevalueofbtc/the-bitcoin-second-
layer-d503949d0a06 "The Bitcoin Second Layer") in payment channel networks on
top of proof-of-work networks). Many investors such as Warren Buffet refuse to
invest in precious metals because they do not generate yield. Similarly, many
large institutional investors and funds only invest in stocks that pay a
dividend, therefore excluding companies like Amazon. Because digital monies
offer native risk-free rates, tremendous amounts of net new capital will
invest in digital monies that is unable to invest in gold today.

 **4) New economic activity:** The Open Finance and Web3 ecosystems will
unlock trillions of dollars of economic activity on blockchains. We should
expect that at least some of this will flow into the native tokens that power
these blockchains.

With a general understanding of the opportunity for a state-free money, the
obvious question is: What money or monies will it be? Given the [network
effects of money](https://multicoin.capital/2018/05/09/on-the-network-effects-
of-stores-of-value/ "The Network Effects of Stores of Value"), we believe that
there will be natural long-term convergence toward [a single state-free
money](https://multicoin.capital/2019/03/14/on-value-capture-at-
layers-1-and-2/ "On Value Capture at Layer 1 and Layer 2").

And that money is unlikely to be Bitcoin.

There are [three major hypotheses](https://multicoin.capital/2018/03/15/paths-
to-100t/ "Paths to $100T") that describe the path by which some asset can
become the global, state-free money.

The first is the SOV hypothesis, which argues that the only property of money
that matters (beyond basic security and usability) is its monetary policy, and
therefore that the least inflationary money must win. This view is mostly
strongly espoused by Bitcoin maximalists.

The second is the utility hypothesis, which argues that the money that’s most
used as money will become the global, state-free money. Advocates of this
hypothesis also recognize the need for a predictable and credible monetary
policy. However, they don’t necessarily prioritize it as the sole variable
that will dictate which native blockchain token will become the global, state-
free money. This view is most strongly espoused by people building in and on
smart contract platforms, as these platforms are the most likely to produce
the most utility by powering the Open Finance and Web3 ecosystems.

The third is the stablecoin hypothesis, which argues that price stability is
necessary for a money to be adopted. However, stablecoins are subject to
intrinsic [trade-offs](https://haseebq.com/stablecoins-designing-a-price-
stable-cryptocurrency/ "Stablecoins: designing a price-stable
cryptocurrency"), and we find it extremely unlikely that any algorithmic
stablecoin will survive the test of time because of the [impossibility
trinity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impossible_trinity "Impossible
Trinity").

We believe the utility hypothesis is the most likely to produce the most
valuable money—that the money that people use as money in a wide array of
applications will become the global, state-free money—and as such, we invest a
plurality of our time and energy in smart contract platforms and the
infrastructure necessary to help them fulfill the Open Finance and Web3
visions. While Ethereum is currently the market leader on this front, we do
not take it for granted that Ethereum will win, and instead manage our
portfolio probabilistically.

##  **Conclusion**

The economy is a beautifully complex machine. That it works at such incredible
scale is a testament to the power of trust that underlies our human
institutions.

While the economy and society are based on an immense amount of trust, trust
is not perfect. Humans fail. And therefore human institutions fail. Failures
can compound, creating cascading failures and systemic risk.

Facilitated by open networks built on free-market assumptions and bounded by
cryptography, humans can, for the first time in history, coordinate on a large
scale without introducing any trusted intermediaries potentially prone to
abusing that trust. Now that this is possible, we can revisit all of our
preconceived trust assumptions throughout many sectors in the economy, and
create incredible amounts of economic value.

The transition from a trust-based economy to one of self-sovereignty will be
behind one of the largest wealth transfers in human history.

Trust is the foundation of all economic relationships. The greatest investment
opportunity of our lifetimes is betting that it doesn’t have to be.

 _Multicoin Capital 's investment thesis, the "Crypto Mega Theses," was first
presented at the Spring 2019 Multicoin Summit. Watch the full presentation
below._

![Play
Video](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

 _ **Disclosures:** Multicoin Capital holds positions in some of the assets
discussed in this post. Multicoin Capital abides by a “No Trade Policy” for
the assets listed in this report for 3 days (“No Trade Period”) following its
public release. No officer, director or employee shall purchase or sell any of
the aforementioned assets during the No Trade Period._

_As of the publication date of this report, Multicoin Capital Management LLC
and its affiliates (collectively “Multicoin”), others that contributed
research to this report and others that we have shared our research with
(collectively, the “Investors”) own tokens of the project covered herein and
stand to realize gains in the event that the price of the token increases or
decreases. Following publication of the report, the Investors may transact in
the tokens of the project covered herein. All content in this report represent
the opinions of Multicoin. Multicoin has obtained all information herein from
sources they believe to be accurate and reliable. However, such information is
presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied._

 _This document is for informational purposes only and is not intended as an
official confirmation of any transaction. All market prices, data and other
information are not warranted as to completeness or accuracy, are based upon
selected public market data, and reflect prevailing conditions and Multicoin’s
views as of this date, all of which are accordingly subject to change without
notice. Multicoin has no obligation to continue offering reports regarding the
project. Reports are prepared as of the date(s) indicated and may become
unreliable because of subsequent market or economic circumstances._

 _Any investment involves substantial risks, including, but not limited to,
pricing volatility, inadequate liquidity, and the potential complete loss of
principal. This report’s estimated fundamental value only represents a best
efforts estimate of the potential fundamental valuation of a specific token,
and is not expressed as, or implied as, assessments of the quality of a token,
a summary of past performance, or an actionable investment strategy for an
investor._

 _This document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an
offer to buy or sell any investment or token discussed herein._

 _The information contained in this document may include, or incorporate by
reference, forward-looking statements, which would include any statements that
are not statements of historical fact. These forward-looking statements may
turn out to be wrong and can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known
or unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, most of which are beyond
Multicoin’s control. Investors should conduct independent due diligence, with
assistance from professional financial, legal and tax experts, on all tokens
discussed in this document and develop a stand-alone judgment of the relevant
markets prior to making any investment decision._

+ Show More

[Read NextOn Value Capture at Layers 1 and 2](/2019/03/14/on-value-capture-at-
layers-1-and-2/)

![Kyle
Samani](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/4OF6ywwNnbQLmD5qsIQ9kF/29aa033b59f51bc65fff3729e6948fe4/kyle_samani__2_.jpg)

By [Kyle Samani](/about#225b2112-7be1-5fc9-8755-db7e245ba5a5)

[@kylesamani](https://twitter.com/KyleSamani)

More Tags

[Writing](/blog/category/blog/)[Featured](/blog/category/featured/)[Podcasts](/podcasts/)[Videos](/videos/)

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER FOR THE BEST INSIGHTS IN CRYPTO

[![phoenix](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/72L5sEuJXOA7PvWBZM540E/27909d6ff5cda80158665ca43514b11c/phoenix_logo_white.svg)Subscribe](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)

* * *

  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)

  * [Podcasts](/podcasts/)
  * [Videos](/videos/)
  * [Subscribe](https://multicoin.capital/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

### GET IN TOUCH

We’re always looking for compelling ideas, business, and partnership
opportunities. We also enjoy reading your feedback. If you’re submitting a
business proposal, please include a clear description and any resources that
could help us evaluate your opportunity.

[hello@multicoin.capital](mailto:hello@multicoin.capital)

* * *

![Multicoin
Capital](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

## Multicoin Capital

©2017-2021 Multicoin Capital. All Rights Reserved.

