[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Crypto Spring: The Awakening

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Crypto Spring: The Awakening

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/ov_ana-150x150.jpg)

October 2020

Posted by

Ana-Maria Yanakieva

Investment Manager

Ana-Maria is also responsible for the identification and implementation of new
Outlier Venture’s Base Camp deals with a specific focus on fundraising, go-to-
market planning, and overseeing the full investor relations process for the
accelerator....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/ana-maria-
yanakieva/)

2020 has been a turbulent year with no middle ground in business. Tech has
generally done alright as an industry with the exception of a couple of tech
enabled industries. Web 3 has its root in decentralised cooperation which made
it quite resilient to the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result, we are seeing more
companies enter the space and more product building than ever.

Posted by Ana-Maria Yanakieva - October 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/ov_ana-150x150.jpg)

October 2020

Posted by

Ana-Maria Yanakieva

Investment Manager

Ana-Maria is also responsible for the identification and implementation of new
Outlier Venture’s Base Camp deals with a specific focus on fundraising, go-to-
market planning, and overseeing the full investor relations process for the
accelerator....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/ana-maria-
yanakieva/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

The Web 3 community has adapted very quickly to the “new normal”. In fact it
has been our normal for a while apart from the few big events every year. Now
people are hanging out in the Metaverses of Decentraland and Somnium. The
industry is definitely maturing and here are some observations on what drove
the awakening and where we are going next.



## ![Crypto Spring: The Awakening Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/05onfire1_xp-
videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600-v2.jpg)

##

## **Finance. But make it decentralised.**

Decentralised Finance seeds were first laid out in 2018. The community of
builders expanded in 2019. The early adopters and partial payday came in
mid-2020. Very few people were investing early on deeming DeFi too early. The
good news is entrepreneurs will build regardless of capital and exits
available. A lot of new products finally came to market in 2020 and this
spurred quite a lot of usage. We got to the point where it costs $300+ to
launch a smart contract due to Ethereum gas fees. Ethereum also reached a 2
year high of on-chain activity.

![Crypto Spring: The Awakening Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/Ethereum-
ETH-02.11.09-23-Oct-2020.png)

What’s next: there’s loads of infrastructure talks right now. Scalability
solutions like Matic are seeing rapid growth in developers switching, so they
can continue shipping useful products. Polkadot is also seeing some early
growth signs in DeFi. At the same time, ETH 2.0 will take a while. Let’s see
if any of the challengers like Near will manage to attract sufficient dev
community and fill the vacuum.

Notable projects: Yearn finance, Uniswap, Curve, Compound

> Outlier Ventures portfolio to watch: DIA, Keytango, Fetch.AI, Alkemi
>
>  

## ![Crypto Spring: The Awakening Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/digital-
transformation-1024x740-1.jpeg)

## **Institutions are here to stay.**

Large enterprises may not be allured by AMMs, yield farming and decentralised
exchanges but they sure are looking to optimise their operations. The pandemic
exposed a lot of vulnerabilities in big companies’ operating and business
models. Many were wildly unprepared not only on business, but on technical and
cultural levels too. They were forced to adopt tech and innovation quickly.
And this is great news for such nascent space as Web 3. Investment arms like
CMT Digital, Commerz Ventures, CMS Holding’s CVC and more proved to be some of
the active investors in the past couple of months. And most recently Paypal
joined the “hype train”.

What’s next: From here opportunities will lie in security, governance, privacy
and compliance, data monitoring and workflow optimisations. We expect the
innovation budgets to climb back up and DLT to scoop up a larger portion
following automation attempts where governance will creep up as a problem.

Notable projects: Hyperledger, R3, Baakt, Curv,

> Outlier Ventures portfolio to watch: Bond180, Fardoe Software, Rexsio,
> Tracifier, Cryptio, Zinc
>
>  

## ![Crypto Spring: The Awakening Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/10/stsmall507x507-pad600x600f8f8f8.jpg)

## **Macro and the modern portfolio theory.**

In March 2020, the world leaders tried to put the economy on pause and central
banks had to react with targeted fiscal stimulus. And in a world with
inflation targeting being one of the main policies, central bankers had to
drop the nominal interest rates to zero or very close to zero and embrace
short term inflation. It did not go without consequences. Now many are in
search for yield and modern portfolio theory is being updated in real time.

A lot more are now turning to stocks and alternative asset classes. Private
equity and Venture Capital traditionally do very well in such environment. But
there is an emerging asset class on the horizon that was not there in 2008.
While institutional adoption of cryptocurrencies is still relatively low it is
safe to say more are looking into allocations. Fidelity has announced they are
raising a Bitcoin fund.

At personal level, people also started looking into alternative investments.
According Mode Banking research, more and more UK boomers and gen X’ers are
now looking to park a portion of their wealth into crypto. The benefit is the
5 to 10% interest rate that can be earned and coupled together with price
appreciation of the underlying asset, it is becoming an attractive investment.

> _Dermot O 'Riordan (Eden Block)_: For me, I repeatedly said throughout the
> bear market in 2018 and 2019 that if you believed in the potential in 2017
> then you should be even more bullish than ever now given the level of
> developer activity happening. And the growing level of sophistication in
> terms of how builders are creating these new systems.

As Dan Held says “when the printer goes brrr, the node goes whirrr”.

What’s next: Who knows? The macro environment is quite uncertain but crypto is
showing some really improved fundamentals.

Notable projects: Mode Banking, ZeFi, Ramp Network, Argent, Lolli



## ![Crypto Spring: The Awakening Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/10/https___bucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com_public_images_cece07d6-0da3-441e-aa07-b695196cdda1_1020x620.png)

##

## **Bored in the house, in the house bored. Welcome to the Metaverse.**

Speaking of alternative asset classes, we have recently seen a small boom in
collectibles. Pokemon cards, sneakers, bags, watches, Lego sets, wines. People
collect everything. Everyone has been sitting at home for over 6 months now,
reminiscing about the “good days” and seeking new forms of entertainment.
Gaming has definitely picked up a lot of steam. Normally gambling will do
incredibly well in such environment but alas sports were on pause. So people
turned to the stock market and r/wallstreetbets instead.

This is the perfect storm for people to embrace the (open) Metaverse. The
Metaverse is consisting of a couple of key elements - virtual lands and
buildings where people can hang out, fun activities to do together, highly
customisable avatars so people can express themselves and hardware that can
support it. It all started in multi-player games like Fortnite, GTA and Fifa
where people bonded over defeating an enemy. Now they can hang out together
while staying safe at home. Hardware is also there with Oculus shipping one of
the best headsets so far - the Quest 2.

This will naturally spur the need for digital collectibles and digital
collateral. Tiktok fashion month (in place of the Fashion Week series in
person) is now featuring digital fashion. Farfetch has been developing one of
their digitally native fashion brands for some time and it is coming to
fruition. People want to express themselves and we’re seeing the very
beginning of Direct to Avatar commerce (kudos to Ryan Gill).

Also the way people buy and consume art is changing rapidly. Normally they’d
go out and see the pieces and receive the items in timely fashion. Nowadays
all deliveries are being extraordinarily late but that doesn’t curb the
purchasing activity. The NFT standard is primed for this moment as we’re
seeing the beginning of a fundamental change in purchasing habits.

What’s next: the technology is still nascent but iterating very quickly. We’re
expected to see some great developments including living between multiple
(open) metaverses.

Notable projects: Decentraland, Somnium, Rarible, Super Rare, Crypto Voxels,
OpenSea

> Outlier Ventures portfolio to watch: Crucible Network, Boson Protocol,
> Outplay Games + many more to be announced

## **Join our growing ecosystem**

[![Crypto Spring: The Awakening Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/09/OBBC_Signature3.gif)](https://outlierventures.io/base-
camp/)

Outlier Ventures is all about building an ecosystem that collectively strives
to drive innovation and progress within the world of Web 3. We’re always
looking for amazing mentors, investors and Web 3 enthusiasts to join us on
this journey. Let us know how you want to be involved at
[basecamp@outlierventures.io](mailto:basecamp@outlierventures.io).

> If you’re a startup interested in joining a future Base Camp programme,
> [APPLY NOW](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/).

## **Follow Ana on social media**

[ANA.vc](http://ana.vc/) | [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ana_yanakieva)

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

