[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Crypto Art will be the Lambo for the 2020 Bull Run

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Crypto Art will be the Lambo for the 2020 Bull Run

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Jamie-Burke-Hi-
Res-150x150.png)

August 2020

Posted by

Jamie Burke

CEO and Founder

 ...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/jamie-burke/)

‘Crypto Art’ will be to the 2020/21 bull run what ‘The Lambo’ was to 2017, the
symbol of crypto wealth and excess, but this time more grown up, and perhaps
fittingly, tech-geek chic.

Posted by Jamie Burke - August 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Jamie-Burke-Hi-
Res-150x150.png)

August 2020

Posted by

Jamie Burke

CEO and Founder

 ...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/jamie-burke/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

The term ‘crypto art’ is still somewhat nebulous, but increasingly the moniker
of a rapidly growing creative community. On the one hand, it is art about
crypto and its various memes - which can be digital or otherwise. Yet, on the
other hand, it is increasingly about purely digital art made by a community of
animators, 3d model makers and graphic designers, like Perry Cooper, that
leverage the digital scarcity of NFTs (non fungible tokens). Perhaps
unsurprisingly, the latter emerged as a subset of the Ethereum community,
seemingly with a bias towards its London and Berlin creative community. That
said, it is obviously global by nature, with many artists choosing to not
disclose their locations, or even their real identities.



However, like conventional art, it can be hard for a ‘noob’ to navigate and
today there is a distinct lack of curation beyond the handful of digital
platforms like; Superrare.io, KnownOrigin.io or Aync.art, the former being the
most commercially successful - with over $2m spent on crypto art, $1.5m earned
by artists and $500k by its ‘top collectors’. I can imagine an Angel List-type
way of following and investing in curators, where you get a fractional stake
in their collection. But perhaps because of the transparency of blockchains,
removing some of the opacity when compared to today’s decidedly shady art
world.



Many of these platforms are better at marketing than you typically see in
crypto projects, like NiftyGateway.com who leverage tactics seen in the
fashion world by brands like Supreme, with exclusive time sensitive ‘drops’
via mailing list. You can see how they might evolve with access tokens as
scarce as the art itself, acquired and held only by the most active or elite
collectors, making them gatekeepers, tastemakers curating the crypto market
and providing ‘signal’ to a wider retail audience. In fact, it would be
natural for VCs like myself or Jake Brukhman of Coinfund (an artist himself)
who are actively interested in the space and whose day job is already
providing signal to crypto investors, in startups more generally, to start
providing signal to new emerging artists. It was interesting to see Nifty is
‘owned’ by Gemini, and it is likely a matter of time before the Winklevoss
Twins and other well known crypto-founders like Vitalik begin to send many
artists viral.



Interestingly, Serena Tabacchi who works in the retail part of The Tate in the
UK has founded MOCDA (Museum of Crypto Digital Art) which even has an
Incubator of Crypto Art in Somnium, a VR on a blockchain environment, where
they provide virtual land to artists to host their work. There are several
others like this, Ethereum’s Decentraland, Crypto Voxels and Infinite Art
Muse, too. I can imagine the streaming of digital collections on screens on
the walls of homes, but also restaurants, bars and clubs, creating immersive -
perhaps even interactive - experiences; a Twitch for watching how digital art,
in all its forms, can be made.



What's true in crypto generally will be true for crypto art, with the two main
drivers of value and attention being: price + meme game. Crypto Art people
have a natural affinity and mastery of visual memetics. Because of its digital
nature, Twitter is increasingly a powerful medium for crypto artists as eye
catching animated art can be streamed as GIFs, and even interacted with, as
part of innovative interactive marketing campaigns by artists such as
XCopyArt. Could Superrare’s ‘gems’ emoji meme become the next ‘yam’ craze?



And like with everything in crypto, and similar to DeFi, everything starts
niche and almost for crypto’s own sake, but as things become more usable, and
go beyond just the Ethereum ecosystem - they promise to go mainstream. With
new dedicated protocols for NFTs such as DApper Labs Flow or Fabian
Vogelstellar’s Lukso, new features and functionality will become possible with
the ability to cross over, and perhaps converge, with the world of ‘digital
collectibles’ we see in Gaming and the wider VR / AR art movement. It’s here
where ownership and cross platform / protocol portability of digital wealth
becomes increasingly important and why we backed Crucible.network - who make
tools for the builders of the ‘metaverse’, and a portable digital identity for
players, in gaming.



In fact, Archillect.com is an AI based on the Ocular gaming engine ‘created to
discover and share stimulating visual content’ that curates images it likes on
Twitter (where it has over 2m followers) and Instagram based on a unifying
aesthetic. But imagine if it also had economic agency via a Fetch.ai agent or
AEA (Autonomous Economic Agency) to not just discover and share, but buy
crypto art and even auction it back to the community. Ownership of digital
art, rather than by cities and physical museums, could increasingly be by AIs
that work on our behalf or DAOs (Decentralised Autonomous Organisations) as
collectives. This may be one area where I can imagine personal tokens, stakes
in people - in this case artists - or at least their personas and brands,
could make sense.



Either way we at Outlier Ventures increasingly believe the macro environment
for crypto art, NFTs and digital collectibles has created a perfect moment for
the asset class to mainstream. Whilst we, as of yet, have no stakes in any of
the projects mentioned, we are now actively recruiting these types of projects
to explore the themes and ideas described in our next Basecamp Web 3
Accelerator (starting Jan 2021).

# Join our growing ecosystem

Outlier Ventures is all about building an ecosystem that collectively strives
to drive innovation and progress within the world of Web 3. We’re always
looking for amazing mentors, investors and Web 3 enthusiasts to join us on
this journey. Let us know how you want to be involved at
[basecamp@outlierventures.io.](mailto:basecamp@outlierventures.io)

If you’re a startup interested in joining a future Base Camp programme, please
register your interest
[**here**](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd2APcsAAiJyWl43vivgE2brubcheYEwOWofVw_6AV032vX-A/viewform).

##

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

