[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![Crypto Resolutions for a 10/10
2020](/static/9b40187498c27cf8732fb71a0459f33d/2a43b/header.jpg)

[Community](/blog/category/community/)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

## Crypto Resolutions for a 10/10 2020

By [Joshua Long](/blog/author/joshua-long/)

·

January 01, 2020

People have engaged in the act of creating annual life-improvement plans since
the time of the Babylonians, who made promises to their gods at the start of
each year to return borrowed property and repay debts.

It sometimes seems like a degree of undue importance is put, at least in the
Western world, on the changing of the calendar date from December 31st to
January 1st, something which requires a very human perception of time. The age
in which we live, being one of both unsettling change and great possibility
will, to some people, feel like a more important time than ever to reflect and
move into the next period with a greater understanding of their intended
direction.

We thought that the large quantity of research and temperature-taking that
we’ve undertaken this year, watching projects from afar and conducting
interviews in order to get a better picture of myriad stresses and strains,
positions us well to sign off and say goodbye to 2019 by sharing some possible
crypto resolutions.

## If you’re an organizer, store your Meetup contacts somewhere else

In October we heard that [Meetup.com was possibly going to introduce RSVP
fees](https://wptavern.com/meetup-com-introduces-rsvp-fees-for-members-
wordpress-meetup-groups-unaffected-by-pricing-changes), making it very
difficult for a lot of our community to continue having physical meetings.
Although [they later backpedalled on this being a whole-product
change](https://www.meetup.com/lp/paymentchanges?mpId=9038), this is
definitely not something to ignore. If you have an active Meetup community and
you want to safeguard it against the next big change from proprietary Web 2.0
applications deciding they want more money, think of where else you can have
the ability to get in contact with that community. [Or you could seek to try
and build something better](https://blog.ethereum.world/public-service-
announcement-ethereums-most-undervalued-asset-at-risk-and-what-we-can-do-
about-it-together/)...

## Feed the dapps

> [dapps don't make any sense, no utility - just toys, games that are not fun
> to play,](https://akasha.org/blog/2019/10/01/how-do-you-define-the-word-
> community)

Aggregators like [stateofthedapps](https://www.stateofthedapps.com/) paint a
pretty grim picture; as a community we need to come together more and eat our
own dogfood. Been given a choice between using a dapp or not? Use the dapp.
Been asked for feedback on how something works? Fill out the survey. Seen a
conversation about the future of a project on Telegram? Jump in. Developers
and Community Managers alike will thank you for it. There are so many people
with great ideas in the space who just need a few more brain-dumps to improve
their piece of the collective, decentralized puzzle.

## Don’t be afraid to get involved

[
![https://twitter.com/JDMsorensen/status/1083770455167811584](/static/cbdb8e8a9506d6546029feb1a8fc531c/7c1cd/twitter.png)
](/static/cbdb8e8a9506d6546029feb1a8fc531c/7c1cd/twitter.png)

So, [this Tweet](https://twitter.com/JDMsorensen/status/1083770455167811584)
is from earlier in 2019, but it’s still so relevant. No-one has all the
answers and interdisciplinarity is something that should be central to our
world-changing efforts. You miss 100% of the possible interactions that you
choose not to engage in. Education is not just a top-down process.

## Be kind

Too often crypto Twitter doesn’t exactly paint the greatest picture. Toxicity
in online communities is the enemy of progress, and it is hardly the best
welcome mat to be putting out for those on the outside looking in. It’s all
too easy to hide behind the anonymity that online communications can give to
us and snipe from the sidelines. Let’s focus on lifting each other up - keep
your criticism constructive and put out a helping hand for the newbies.

## Support the BUIDLers, help people thrive

> Sustainability is another way of saying subsistence, folks who work on open
> source should be able to thrive and be fairly compensated for their labour,
> it's important for humanity to figure out open source funding, we want
> people to thrive.

Too many talented people in the space are having to work on their projects as
a side hustle. Those _buy me a coffee_ buttons are a quick, easy window into
supporting people who have given their time to build something that they are
passionate about. Try clicking them once in a while, or, if you’re a Brave
user, why not [send them some of your passive attention
income](https://coinrivet.com/github-adds-option-to-tip-with-bat/)?

## Share your experience

Whether it’s in the form of poll answers, a response to a Tweet, or getting
stuck into a Telegram conversation, we are all individual parts of the big
crypto puzzle; your token engineering buddies might not necessarily get DAOs,
and your governance friends might not know the intricacies and possible
applications of NFTs. We’ve mostly ended up here because of our fascination
with a facet or application of this emerging, developing technology. Let that
passion out! When people come to us with sentences starting _have you thought
about…_ we always know that the conversation is going to be meaningful.

## Look at your onboarding

> “Onboarding beyond the crypto space seems to be not ready. Many dapps exist
> only in echo chambers.”

There is a dangerous default mode within humans which blinds us to the fact
that the things we find easy, or that we have learned to do, are not
necessarily the same for everyone. More people need to be brought into this
ecosystem; designing sensible processes and ways of holding their hands
through onboarding can only be a good thing. Next time you test the steps that
people have to take in order to get into your dapp, try finding some crypto
newbies and amateurs; if they can do it, you’re probably onto a winner.

## Have open conversations about governance

The problem of how to divide power is something that we haven’t really had to
think about for a long time. This is not because people haven’t wanted things
to be different, but rather because the tools didn’t exist. They do now.
Whether you feel closer to Plato, Hobbes, or Proudhon, your voice is needed in
this discussion. Talks about the where and why of decision making now will
steer where we are going, don’t miss out on your chance to shape the future.

## Be the person you needed when you first got into crypto

Remember that individual who first engaged you in conversation about
blockchain, decentralized systems, governance, DAOs, token engineering, or
whichever topic brought you here? That experience likely set the course that
you’ve taken up until this point. Whether that first person was positive and
friendly or preachy and patronising, keep in mind that for a lot of people you
will probably be that first point of contact. The representative for the new
world. In the same way that chaos theory explores the idea that a butterfly
flapping its wings could cause a tornado elsewhere, a short interaction online
could be the difference between a valuable community member and a person who
stays on the outside. Welcome the inquisitive with open arms.

Hopefully this has sparked something. We wish you an exciting 2020, filled
with all the kinds of change that you're looking for.

[Community](/blog/category/community/)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2020/01/01/crypto-
resolutions)

