![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/crypto-pioneer-david-chaum-on-election-security-and-the-decline-of-democracy/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/crypto-pioneer-david-chaum-on-election-security-and-the-decline-of-democracy/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/crypto-pioneer-david-chaum-on-election-security-and-the-decline-of-democracy/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/crypto-pioneer-david-chaum-on-election-security-and-the-decline-of-democracy/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/crypto-pioneer-david-chaum-on-election-security-and-the-decline-of-democracy/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/crypto-pioneer-david-chaum-on-election-security-and-the-decline-of-democracy/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Crypto pioneer David Chaum on election security and the decline of
democracy](/static/7ba7516f1b50a9c6ee7892b9d620a65b/Orchid_BlogImage_DChaum.jpg)

# Crypto pioneer David Chaum on election security and the decline of democracy

Aug 10, 2020  
  

Democracy has entered a period of acute danger, says David Chaum on the most
recent episode of Orchid's podcast, [Follow the White
Rabbit](https://www.orchid.com/podcast). David is widely considered the
forefather of the crypto movement: he proposed the first digital currency in
his 1981 paper "Untraceable: Electronic Mail, Return Addresses, and Digital
Pseudonyms." His 1982 dissertation "Computer Systems Established, Maintained,
and Trusted by Mutually Suspicious Groups" is the first known proposal of a
blockchain protocol, including the code needed to implement it. This visionary
document proposed all but one of the elements of a blockchain that were later
put forward in the 2009 Bitcoin white paper.

Beyond cryptography, David is also known for his work on secure election
systems. And he's deeply worried about studies that show, for instance, that
confidence in democracy has fallen below 50% everywhere but a handful of
small, prosperous countries. And once people stop believing that democracy
works, "it's game over," says David. This is one of the reasons he founded xx
Network, which is building an easy-to-use, private, and scalable platform for
messaging and payments. xx Network not only obscures the content of messaging
and communications, but "shreds" the associated metadata as well.

This may be a key to preserving privacy, and democracy, into the future. As
David explains, authorities don't need to know the content of conversations to
exert control. All they need is the metadata: who is talking to whom, and
when. He warns against what he calls a government "panopticon," in which the
authorities are able to monitor all communications from a central position.
People cannot participate meaningfully in democracy unless they can
communicate candidly with friends and family, he says, but the global
expansion of surveillance is threatening people's ability to do so without
fear of manipulation or retaliation.

> It's antithetical to the kind of participation people need to have in order
> to have democracy, and if you lose democracy you lose the whole game," he
> says.

What would be required to protect democracy from collapse? David argues for a
"protected sphere" for political discourse that includes truly private
messaging and payments. On the second point, David says that although he does
not believe money equals speech, there has to be a mechanism for compensating
those who ferret out, present, and help analyze information for the benefit of
the body politic. Without high-quality information shining a light toward
truth, a any protected sphere would be hollow, he contends.

Follow us down the rabbit hole: [listen to the conversation
here](https://www.orchid.com/podcast) or on your favorite streaming service.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)
  * [Censorship](/tag/censorship/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Crypto%20pioneer%20David%20Chaum%20on%20election%20security%20and%20the%20decline%20of%20democracy%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fcrypto-
pioneer-david-chaum-on-election-security-and-the-decline-of-democracy%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fcrypto-
pioneer-david-chaum-on-election-security-and-the-decline-of-democracy%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fcrypto-
pioneer-david-chaum-on-election-security-and-the-decline-of-democracy%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/yele-bademosi-joins-priv8s-expanding-roster-of-speakers/)

#### Yele Bademosi joins Priv8’s expanding roster of speakers

](/yele-bademosi-joins-priv8s-expanding-roster-of-speakers/)

Mar 16, 2021

](/marvin-tong-on-battling-the-data-empire-with-privacy-and-decentralization/)

[

#### Marvin Tong on Battling the “Data Empire” with Privacy and
Decentralization

](/marvin-tong-on-battling-the-data-empire-with-privacy-and-decentralization/)

Mar 22, 2021

](/the-global-network-initiatives-jason-pielemeier-on-internet-freedom/)

[

#### The Global Network Initiative’s Jason Pielemeier on Internet Freedom

](/the-global-network-initiatives-jason-pielemeier-on-internet-freedom/)

Jun 29, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

