[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Data Science in Blockchain

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Data Science in Blockchain

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/11/155844779614799575-150x150.jpeg)

May 2019

Posted by

Theo Turner

Technology Analyst

Theo is an R&D software developer working with blockchain, machine learning
and the internet of things. In addition to building applications for internal
use, Theo completes technical due diligence on new projects and assists
Outlier’s portfolio companies with technical capabilities....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=3187)

# A Venture Capital Perspective: Blockchain is the ultimate database for data
science

## By Theo Turner

Posted by Theo Turner - May 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/11/155844779614799575-150x150.jpeg)

May 2019

Posted by

Theo Turner

Technology Analyst

Theo is an R&D software developer working with blockchain, machine learning
and the internet of things. In addition to building applications for internal
use, Theo completes technical due diligence on new projects and assists
Outlier’s portfolio companies with technical capabilities....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=3187)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

## After all, blockchains are open, high-availability ledgers whose
maintainers have an economic incentive to keep them perfectly up-to-date.
Blockchains are highly reliable and architected to be as small as possible.
They make sourcing data easy.

This article discusses a practical approach to data science for the [Web
3.0](https://outlierventures.io/investment-strategy/).

### Why data science for blockchain?

The key difference between data _science_ and traditional data _analysis_ is
the ability to gain insight from data without the need for a human-centric
approach. Unifying the fields of statistics and machine learning, data science
allows for the inclusion of big data, ambiguity and even unstructured data
sources. With roots in computer science, the field automates much of
traditional business intelligence, deriving more useful and more accurate
insights with less capital expenditure and in less time.

Blockchain, now a mainstay of open-source innovation, solves one of the core
problems data scientists face: sourcing data. Breaking away from the
traditionally secretive fintech world, blockchain incentivises data sharing
and is designed with replicability in mind. 9 times out of 10, blockchains
store timestamped financial data alongside a host of variables which might
correlate with and influence it. Predicting, forecasting, insights and
analytics have a concrete base in blockchain.

### Where do you get the data?

The vast majority of blockchains are public, permissionless ledgers maintained
by _nodes_. A node is a computer with a full copy of the blockchain data, for
example past transactions, that stays up-to-date with any changes to the
database.

![Data Science in Blockchain Outlier Ventures](http://outlierventures-
ovio-2019.pskdev.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/data.jpeg)

To get data, you can either run your own node, pull from an existing node, or
make use of hosted software which allows you to plug data queries directly
into a network of your choosing.

The most direct approach, running your own node, involves starting a
blockchain client, such as [Parity for
Ethereum](https://github.com/paritytech/parity-ethereum) and leveraging an ETL
job, such as [ethereum-etl](https://github.com/blockchain-etl/ethereum-etl). A
slightly less cpu-intensive approach involves plugging an ETL job into an
existing node using tools like [Infura](https://infura.io/).

Hosted solutions, such as [Google
BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/public-data/), also offer the
ability to run data queries directly on existing crypto-network data without
the need for additional software.

The leading blockchain data source designed for data scientists, however, is
[Ocean Protocol](https://oceanprotocol.com/). The platform handles dataset
curation for you, immediately identifying the datasets that benefit prevalent
machine learning algorithms the most.

Where Ocean Protocol differentiates itself from other chains, however, is that
it is not limited to the narrow financial scope of a ledger. In fact, any and
all data may be hosted on the platform, including an economic incentive for
big data providers to do so. Further, one of its most unique aspects is that
the platform enables you to compute on private information using an algorithm-
to-data approach, which has far-reaching applications in medicine, finance and
AI.

### Which tools do you use?

Before starting, a good data scientist identifies their requirements and
selects the most appropriate approach to the problem. There are a host of
tools available for developing data solutions, whether working with neural
networks, autoregressive models or traditional analytic methods. It is
important to understand how to judge accuracy, test software, and present
results before putting together a toolkit.

![Data Science in Blockchain Outlier Ventures](http://outlierventures-
ovio-2019.pskdev.com/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/Screenshot-2019-05-20-at-12.44.34.png)

A key language in any data scientist’s arsenal is Python. Python’s ecosystem
of libraries make working with data easy, whether it be with statistics
frameworks like [scipy](https://github.com/scipy/scipy) and
[seaborn](https://github.com/mwaskom/seaborn), data manipulation with
[numpy](https://github.com/numpy/numpy) and
[pandas](https://github.com/pandas-dev/pandas), or machine learning with
[sklearn](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn).
[R](https://www.r-project.org/), the former leader in this space, offers an
equally mature ecosystem while being more tailored to statistical analysis.

When it comes to performance-critical components like high-frequency execution
engines, C++ is often used to drive backend work. [Rust](https://www.rust-
lang.org/) is also gaining a lot of ground in this space, offering more modern
syntax and better code safety without sacrificing performance versus C++.

Once you’re able to deliver a product, look to [Ocean
Protocol](https://oceanprotocol.com/) to monetise your work. Not only can you
sell your outputs, such as filtered data and predictions, you can also offer
your algorithm as a paid service, or even sell it outright.

### What is Outlier Ventures doing in data science?

Outlier Ventures sits at the crossroads of technology and finance. As a value
investor in one of the most innovative technology sectors, it’s important that
we help to develop the industry we invest in. Recently, we’ve been working on
a joint project between our internal technology and crypto-economics teams to
create a predictive analytics engine for the wider industry, and we can’t wait
to share it.

We maintain our commitment to open-source, so if you’re a data scientist
looking at blockchain, keep an eye on our GitHub. Our latest addition to the
[Convergence Stack](https://outlierventures.io/investment-strategy/) is almost
ready.

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

