![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/david-pan-on-chinas-impact-on-blockchain-and-human-rights/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/david-pan-on-chinas-impact-on-blockchain-and-human-rights/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/david-pan-on-chinas-impact-on-blockchain-and-human-rights/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/david-pan-on-chinas-impact-on-blockchain-and-human-rights/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/david-pan-on-chinas-impact-on-blockchain-and-human-rights/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/david-pan-on-chinas-impact-on-blockchain-and-human-rights/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![David Pan on China’s Impact on Blockchain and Human
rights](/static/e2f22c676ac36c90b49b145676592602/Orchid_BlogImage_DPan.jpg)

# David Pan on China’s Impact on Blockchain and Human rights

Oct 20, 2020  
  

![](/img/podcast-bunny.svg)

 **Follow the White Rabbit podcast**[Start
Listening](https://www.orchid.com/podcast/episode-19-david-pan)

David Pan is originally from China and moved to the United States three years
ago for a masters degree in business journalism. That propelled him to
becoming an international business reporter at the largest blockchain and
cryptocurrency media publication, Coindesk. David's background affords him a
particular perspective on the news events around the industry from China --
one of the biggest influences on blockchain and cryptocurrency.

When it comes to business, cryptocurrency and China, David has discovered that
politics is also rarely far away. He revealed on the latest episode of [Follow
the White Rabbit](https://www.orchid.com/podcast) podcast how his
[reporting](https://www.coindesk.com/hong-kong-citizens-turn-to-stablecoins-
to-resist-national-security-law) unearthed a clear link between the proposal
and implementation of a new national security law in Hong Kong and spikes in
transactions of "stablecoins," or digital tokens pegged to a fiat currency and
independent of the banking system.

Hong Kong's national security law, enacted mid-year, aims to quell opposition
to China's ruling Communist Party. The law has raised widespread fears of a
clampdown on free speech and tighter control over the city's financial system.
Under the new law, the Hong Kong government is able to freeze and confiscate
assets from people or organizations that are suspected of being involved in
national security crimes.

While Hong Kong's political turmoil has seen many young people protest in the
streets, David learned it was middle-aged and older people who were resorting
to stablecoins in an effort to safeguard their savings. "They wanted to
transfer some part of their money in case of the worst case scenario where --
if they accidentally posted (on social media) something against the government
-- their money could be confiscated," David said.

> People in Hong Kong use encrypted messaging services such as Telegram to
> work with brokers for over-the-counter trades, David said. "It's one of the
> ways to skirt state supervision, state surveillance and capital controls,"
> he added.

> As podcast host Alex Kehaya said, cryptocurrencies can help bring freedoms.
> Stablecoins effectively removed a lever for censorship where people fear one
> less thing that the government can take away in order to control citizens,
> he said.

David also explained the Chinese government's apparent contradictions where on
the one hand it cracks down on cryptocurrencies but on the other seeks to be a
dominant player of blockchain technology. It comes down to the difference
between private, closed blockchains for uses such as managing legal documents
on a distributed ledger, compared with open, public, "permissionless"
blockchains that are much more prevalent in the West. The main reason for the
government's posture is that the public blockchains more easily allow for
cryptocurrency tokens that can be used for capital flight out of China, which
would upset the Communist Party's goal to control financial stability.

David highlighted, for example, how Alibaba is set to overtake its U.S.
counterparts in the race to [win patents](https://kisspatent.com/blockchain-
patents-study) for private blockchains.

To hear more about the relation between human rights, blockchain and China,
follow us down the rabbit hole:[ listen to the conversation
here](https://www.orchid.com/podcast) or on your favorite streaming service.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)
  * [Decentralization](/tag/decentralization/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22David%20Pan%20on%20China%E2%80%99s%20Impact%20on%20Blockchain%20and%20Human%20rights%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fdavid-
pan-on-chinas-impact-on-blockchain-and-human-rights%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fdavid-
pan-on-chinas-impact-on-blockchain-and-human-rights%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fdavid-
pan-on-chinas-impact-on-blockchain-and-human-rights%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/meet-orchid-virtually-at-ethdenver-2021/)

#### Meet Orchid (virtually) at ETHDenver 2021

](/meet-orchid-virtually-at-ethdenver-2021/)

Feb 4, 2021

](/joe-toscano-on-fighting-big-tech-bias-with-data-science/)

[

#### Joe Toscano on Fighting Big Tech Bias With Data Science

](/joe-toscano-on-fighting-big-tech-bias-with-data-science/)

Feb 8, 2021

](/should-you-leave-your-vpn-on-all-the-time/)

[

#### Should you leave your VPN on all the time?

](/should-you-leave-your-vpn-on-all-the-time/)

Feb 10, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

