[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/ee8b89e7ba61&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![safenetwork](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*oEy3kCG2HULiXdpEQdr6Nw.jpeg)](https://medium.com/safenetwork?source=post_page
-----ee8b89e7ba61--------------------------------)

Published in

[safenetwork

](https://medium.com/safenetwork?source=post_page-----
ee8b89e7ba61--------------------------------)

[![Ceilidh Gray](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/2*jCW-
zwjhNKbXgOWMpXA8MQ.jpeg)](/@ceilidhgray?source=post_page-----
ee8b89e7ba61--------------------------------)

[Ceilidh Gray](/@ceilidhgray?source=post_page-----
ee8b89e7ba61--------------------------------)

Follow

Sep 24, 2019

·

4 min read

#  **Dawn of the Deepfakes**

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*dOxNURipPKf64qVTKHXzug.jpeg)

Photo by [h
heyerlein](https://unsplash.com/@heyerlein?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)
on [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/s/photos/robot-
face?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)

We’ve been living in a [post-truth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Post-truth)
world for some time now. A world where the standard for ‘truth’ has
disintegrated and the understanding of fact and fiction is wasting away under
piles of opinions, alt-facts, fake-news and, quite frankly, a hell of a lot of
bullshit. And one of the factors contributing to this rather dystopian world
is [deepfakes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deepfake).

Deceptively authentic, deepfakes are the product of advances in the field of
Deep Learning, a form of Artificial Intelligence. Deepfakes emerge from a
specific type of deep learning in which pairs of algorithms are pitted against
each other in “[generative adversarial
networks](https://skymind.ai/wiki/generative-adversarial-network-gan),” or
GANs. Without getting too technical, the algorithms ‘train’ against each other
and the machine learns autonomously — meaning the more they learn, the more
developed they become — and the more realistic a deepfake can be.

But where did this come from? Like a lot of technology, it has origins in two
worlds: internet communities and the halls of academic research.

Academically, deepfakes came to light in 1997. A project called [Video Rewrite
](https://www2.eecs.berkeley.edu/Research/Projects/CS/vision/human/bregler-
sig97.pdf)modified existing footage of a person speaking, changing the words
that were coming from the actor’s mouth in an advanced form of dubbing, a
common technique used in movies. While dubbing normally made no attempt to
match the movement of the actor’s mouth with the voiceover, the Video Rewrite
project used computer-vision techniques to track points on the speaker’s mouth
so it could make it appear like they were speaking the words.

The term we know today however apparently originates from a Reddit user called
‘deepfake’, circa 2017. A thread called r/deepfake soon followed, and became
filled with doctored images famous people and then, as you can imagine, the
porn soon followed with celebrities heads superimposed upon pornographic
video. And, for some reason, there was an awful lot of Nicholas Cage showing
up in movies…

 **Creating deepfakes**

While one would need a pretty strong grasp of computer science and lots of
time to create a robust attempt at a deepfake that looked _real_ , there are
now off the shelf apps such as Zao, a deepfake face-swapping app which has
already gone viral in China. The app enables you to upload a photograph and
insert yourself into hundreds of movies and TV shows apparently within
seconds. You can see this [Twitter
user](https://twitter.com/AllanXia/status/1168049059413643265?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1168049059413643265&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.lifehacker.com.au%2F2019%2F09%2Falert-
deepfake-apps-are-about-to-go-mainstream%2F) showing his deepfake based on
_one_ image:

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*T3hX1fR8wu47Zg9l)

So the arrival of Zao, while only available in China, is just an example of
how close this is to becoming mainstream. The spread of these services will
lower the barriers to entry (note: Zao is free). Soon the only constraint on
one’s ability to produce a deepfake will be your imagination. While
superimposing yourself into a movie is fairly harmless, this can lead to some
pretty serious issues (even aside from the [privacy
concerns](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2019/sep/02/chinese-face-
swap-app-zao-triggers-privacy-fears-viral) around the data Zao collects).

We’re taught to believe what we see. Yet without a diligent lens for visual
digital literacy, the likelihood of falsehoods being perpetuated by such
content is incredibly high. It’s what artists [Bill Posters and Daniel
Howe](http://billposters.ch/spectre-launch/), the duo who created the Kim
Kardashian and Mark Zuckerberg deepfakes of 2019, call “[computational
propaganda](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-48607673)”.

 **Fighting Fakes**

So recently, Facebook announced, in conjunction with Microsoft and a handful
of universities, that it’s launching an initiative to develop technology for
detecting deepfakes. The Deepfake Detection Challenge (DFDC) intends [“to
produce technology that everyone can use to better detect when AI has been
used to alter a video in order to mislead the
viewer.”](https://ai.facebook.com/blog/deepfake-detection-challenge/) The DFDC
will give technologists and developers a sample data set to work with,
alongside grants and rewards to incentivise participation.

But instead of merely firefighting this threat of manipulation, how about a
Network that removes the haziness?

The SAFE Network has a unique proposition: [Perpetual
Data](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_GJZYS7ZJYs). Like the Internet Archive,
the web lives forever on the Network, open to all to dig around the history of
a page like a digital archaeologist. Plus the Network keeps track of the
updates to every site automatically — so every site edit is stacked on top
with the sequence of events recorded in the site’s history (not simply removed
and forgotten). It’s a permanent digital archive, available to all humanity.

So how would this work in this case?

Say you publish a video of you speaking publicly at an event. You would be the
verifiable publisher of that content, using an ID which others can also
validate the content against. Now imagine some doctored _deepfake_ versions
start appearing. While this data can’t be taken off the Network, you have
evidence that these copies are not from you — you simply need to highlight the
ID of the publisher and compare the dates, which would clearly be published
after the original version.

The [SAFE Network](https://safenetwork.tech/) can’t stop computational
propaganda or ensure all content on the Network is truthful. Nor would it try
to. But we can — and are — building a Network of truth that removes
gatekeepers and allows anyone to join. And because the Network is
[autonomous](https://safenetwork.tech/faq/#what-is-an-autonomous-network), it
self-manages, self-governs and, fundamentally, is free from manipulation by
individuals or groups. The Network can’t be shut down, nor censored, nor
controlled. So join the [community](https://safenetforum.org/) and be part of
the new future.

\--

\--

\--

## [More from safenetwork](/safenetwork?source=post_page-----
ee8b89e7ba61--------------------------------)

Stories from around the SAFE Network

[Read more from safenetwork](/safenetwork?source=post_page-----
ee8b89e7ba61--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Talksome](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*jRQM8v72mGowqvrRQBWriQ.png)](/@talksome?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Talksome

](/@talksome?source=post_internal_links---------0----------------------------)

## Part 2: (Bot)ched Communication- What Do We Want From Bots?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*ix0Q6PEXuS3lfuhi6XHYrQ.jpeg)](/@talksome/part-2-bot-
ched-communication-what-do-we-want-from-
bots-4c7c0951a693?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Paul
Boutin](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*aCOOJS5Z7p8iVj3_kf3j3g.jpeg)](/@Paul_Boutin?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Paul Boutin

](/@Paul_Boutin?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

in

[Chatbots Magazine

](https://medium.com/chat-bots?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## x.ai Founder Dennis Mortensen: AI Can Free Us All To Do Real Work

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*YnbRk5vXtBLtMx1SRKSGqQ.jpeg)](/chat-
bots/x-ai-founder-dennis-mortensen-ai-can-free-us-all-to-do-real-
work-4b9e67406de5?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Anoushkasud](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*eJKqYzOBtL48LDhz5Cf5Tw.jpeg)](/@anoushkasud725?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Anoushkasud

](/@anoushkasud725?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Can AI be creative?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*sASJ3eOnXgoRnkg0CeKedQ.png)](/@anoushkasud725/can-
ai-be-creative-5ce466e5a82b?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Dr. Adam
Hart](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*Xg265ijyMlPasiVOuzdJsw.jpeg)](/@adhart81?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Dr. Adam Hart

](/@adhart81?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

in

[the digital ethicist

](https://medium.com/the-digital-ethicist?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## From computational tool to artificial intelligence friend — Mitsuku,
p-zombies and the blockhead…

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*ZpA8n3LMlRiXTN5a)](/the-
digital-ethicist/from-computational-tool-to-artificial-intelligence-friend-
mitsuku-p-zombies-and-the-blockhead-45189e7d1e2a?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[[![Anvitha
Gowda](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*PnIcvLyoBTbrvTkl6U1IcA.jpeg)](/@anvithamg2001?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Anvitha Gowda

](/@anvithamg2001?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

in

[Dev Genius

](https://medium.com/dev-genius?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## You will never believe how Machine can learn like humans!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*uIrEgx_0b8XDbF7g)](/dev-
genius/you-will-never-believe-how-machine-can-learn-like-
humans-b67faf26bf9c?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Alexander
Fleiss](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*kiTIrBSSQmNzlnEP)](/@rebellionresearch?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Alexander Fleiss

](/@rebellionresearch?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Deep Reinforcement Learning Vs Reinforcement Learning

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*fTEFpNHdYLSXj7rKPdRzCw.jpeg)](/@rebellionresearch/deep-
reinforcement-learning-vs-reinforcement-
learning-686096f54ee8?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Thilina
Rajapakse](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*oBM4rR-W3VS_mtPKrbcIpA.jpeg)](/@chaturangarajapakshe?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Thilina Rajapakse

](/@chaturangarajapakshe?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[Towards Data Science

](https://medium.com/towards-data-science?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## A Quick Overview of NVIDIA Jarvis — An End-to-End Framework for
Conversational AI

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*afAQjgZSoZcK_YMhH0T2jw.jpeg)](/towards-
data-science/a-quick-overview-of-nvidia-jarvis-an-end-to-end-framework-for-
conversational-ai-fd808d4f6607?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Jeremie Harris](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*In9F88SbmYKjy-
QIHUMIPQ.jpeg)](/@JeremieHarris?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[Jeremie Harris

](/@JeremieHarris?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

in

[Towards Data Science

](https://medium.com/towards-data-science?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Are we *under-hyping* AI?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*vIdemz7behYJflLViCN6MQ.png)](/towards-
data-science/are-we-under-hyping-ai-cf680dd48b43?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----ee8b89e7ba61--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
ee8b89e7ba61--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
ee8b89e7ba61--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
ee8b89e7ba61--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
ee8b89e7ba61--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----ee8b89e7ba61--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----ee8b89e7ba61--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fsafenetwork%2Fdawn-
of-the-deepfakes-ee8b89e7ba61&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Ceilidh Gray](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/2*jCW-
zwjhNKbXgOWMpXA8MQ.jpeg)](/@ceilidhgray)

[

## Ceilidh Gray

](/@ceilidhgray)

29 Followers

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fusers%2Fce8754a79334%2Flazily-enable-
writer-
subscription&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fsafenetwork%2Fdawn-
of-the-deepfakes-
ee8b89e7ba61&user=Ceilidh+Gray&userId=ce8754a79334&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Etha
One](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*bOfXfuU3DFVZaEG-G98K6Q@2x.png)](/@ethaone?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------314d211e_3145_4e71_9707_e3180c1eb8b2-------)

[Etha One

](/@ethaone?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
314d211e_3145_4e71_9707_e3180c1eb8b2-------)

## Team Member Spotlight: COO Dimitry Kushelevsky on Startups, AI, and the
Future of Media

](/@ethaone/team-member-spotlight-coo-dimitry-kushelevsky-on-startups-ai-and-
the-future-of-media-1fda275bb1fd?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------314d211e_3145_4e71_9707_e3180c1eb8b2-------)

[[![Stephen Cain](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*oZPsS-uCop0yC-
YbNpurow.jpeg)](/@StephenatSustainable?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------314d211e_3145_4e71_9707_e3180c1eb8b2-------)

[Stephen Cain

](/@StephenatSustainable?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------314d211e_3145_4e71_9707_e3180c1eb8b2-------)

in

[The Sustainable Blog

](https://medium.com/sustainablehq?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------314d211e_3145_4e71_9707_e3180c1eb8b2-------)

## Deciphering the SEC’s Proposed Climate Disclosure Guidance

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*vL_jKkOXP6AO8PjzmrBMLQ.jpeg)](/sustainablehq/deciphering-
the-secs-proposed-climate-disclosure-guidance-
bae3fe56b521?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
314d211e_3145_4e71_9707_e3180c1eb8b2-------)

[[![Sampriti
Saxena](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*CjLiXY1Aer3OLwcA)](/@sampriti.saxena?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------314d211e_3145_4e71_9707_e3180c1eb8b2-------)

[Sampriti Saxena

](/@sampriti.saxena?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
314d211e_3145_4e71_9707_e3180c1eb8b2-------)

in

[Data Stewards Network

](https://medium.com/data-stewards-network?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------314d211e_3145_4e71_9707_e3180c1eb8b2-------)

## Understanding Ethical AI Practices across Diverse Contexts

![Clockwise from the left top corner: Stefaan Verhulst, Piet Naudé, Ashley
Casovan and Christoph
Lütge.](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*rUB-
PfRpXiHH7W5XESiz-w.png)](/data-stewards-network/understanding-ethical-ai-
practices-across-diverse-contexts-949062708385?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------314d211e_3145_4e71_9707_e3180c1eb8b2-------)

[[![Dr Ben Britton](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*nUTC2Q_kYuPTgUv-
tWUvPw.jpeg)](/@bmatb?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
314d211e_3145_4e71_9707_e3180c1eb8b2-------)

[Dr Ben Britton

](/@bmatb?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
314d211e_3145_4e71_9707_e3180c1eb8b2-------)

## The Fishy State of Research Impact Reporting in UK Higher Education

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*el2oOpHXzmqwxQ9B)](/@bmatb/the-
fishy-state-of-research-impact-reporting-in-uk-higher-
education-8e60b0e5cc39?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
314d211e_3145_4e71_9707_e3180c1eb8b2-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

