[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/c8c7bb1dc932&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Crypto
Punks](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*RuBSr8PcbcSSimYWrpQsHA.png)](https://medium.com/crypto-
punks?source=post_page-----c8c7bb1dc932--------------------------------)

Published in

[Crypto Punks

](https://medium.com/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
c8c7bb1dc932--------------------------------)

[![Sam
Aiken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/0*KLR9G_nzD3rK1p1w.jpg)](/@SamAI_Software?source=post_page
-----c8c7bb1dc932--------------------------------)

[Sam Aiken](/@SamAI_Software?source=post_page-----
c8c7bb1dc932--------------------------------)

Follow

Mar 31, 2020

·

11 min read

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*dqXuT8qKpWlheDiR8-XTrw.jpeg)

Image: [source](https://godgame.co/)

# Debunking coronavirus myths: what’s wrong with the death rate

## Mainstream media doesn’t explain why the coronavirus death rate keeps
changing up and down, so it’s time to tackle certain misconceptions and see
what the death rate can tell us about the past and the future of this
pandemic.

  * Most news outlets use the case fatality rate (CFR), which is not an accurate representation of a real death rate during an outbreak.
  * The final death rate will be very different in each country, city, and [wave](/crypto-punks/coronavirus-the-third-pandemic-wave-is-silently-growing-aa9ebf9ecfed).
  * The global death rate (not only death toll) rises in the beginning of each wave and then slowly decreases in the end of the wave.
  * The real death rate in the US didn’t show up yet, because the US is a few weeks behind Italy and Spain.
  * The death rate will increase in the US within a month or so, especially if the health care system will be overwhelmed with new patients.
  * Each pandemic wave will have a different death rate.
  * [The third global pandemic wave](/crypto-punks/coronavirus-the-third-pandemic-wave-is-silently-growing-aa9ebf9ecfed) will be even more devastating, unless all nations unite together to fight the virus: from ordinary people and local businesses, to community leaders, huge corporations, and governments.

[

## Coronavirus: the third pandemic wave is silently growing

### The third global wave will hit developing countries such as India,
Pakistan, Bangladesh, Russia, Nigeria, Mexico…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/coronavirus-the-third-pandemic-wave-is-silently-growing-
aa9ebf9ecfed)

 _Disclosure: this reseach is brought to you by a privacy-oriented peer-to-
peer cryptocurrency marketplace_[ **
_LocalCryptos_**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra) _, so you can read
the content for free without Medium’s paywall or Google ads. I also own BTC,
ETH, BCH, and many other coins._

 _Update: in this article we analyzed the death rate among confirmed cases
because at the time of writing there were not enough coronavirus serology
surveys to estimate the infection fatality rate (IFR) of COVID-19. Now there
are more reports about the IFR, which you can read_[
_here_](https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/articles/2020-04-24/is-coronavirus-
worse-than-the-flu-blood-studies-say-yes-by-far) _._

# Intro

After the coronavirus escaped China, paralyzed most countries, crashed the
crypto market and verged us into a global recession, I’ve decided to dedicate
the next few articles to the coronavirus and its global impact. I’m not a
virologist, but I’m good with numbers, I’ve been following the Wuhan
coronavirus since early January, and I know a thing or two about global
politics and China.

> “A lot of people think that (coronavirus) goes away in April with the heat.
> As the heat comes in. Typically that will go away in April. We’re in great
> shape, though.” — [Donald
> Trump](https://twitter.com/atrupar/status/1226915470667849730)

# Death Rate

Unfortunately, the coronavirus turned out to be much more dangerous than we
initially thought. From the start we’ve been told by so-called experts like
the WHO that it’s just a bit more severe form of a seasonal flu with a
relatively low death rate and that only old people are at risk, so travel bans
and other drastic measures are unnecessary.

> Before this epidemic broke out, people in Italy also said “this is just like
> the flu.” — [E.R. Nurse](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z2KpsZRpoZ8),
> Lombardy, Italy

Even after the virus has left China and we saw real numbers, some influences
continued downplaying an outbreak, pushing a narrative that the whole
coronavirus pandemic is a made up story, because governments needed to blame
something for a long-awaited economic crisis.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*nHUU9wy4JK00RjSY2IuP2A.jpeg)

First thing we should point out is that many news outlets use a case fatality
rate (CFR), without mentioning that a preliminary CFR during the course of an
outbreak with an exponential daily increase of new cases would be
substantially lower than the final CFR. What does that mean?

For example, on March 31 there were globally:

  * 801,061 total cases
  * 38,749 deaths
  * 172,317 recoveries
  * 589,995 active cases
  * 211,066 closed cases (deaths + recoveries)

The case mortality rate ( _deaths/total cases_ ) would be at **4.8%** , but
the final death rate among confirmed cases would be much higher at the end of
the outbreak, because many of already infected people (active cases) will die
in the future.

Another way to calculate the death rate is to divide the number of _deaths_ by
the number of _closed cases_ , which gives us **18.4%**. However, this method
is an overestimation, because death cases are closed faster than recoveries. A
current median time from development of symptoms to death is [14
days](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019%E2%80%9320_coronavirus_pandemic#Deaths),
which is less than a median recovery time.

So will the final death rate among confirmed case be **4.8%** or **18.4%**?

In order to find out that we should analyze data from a country, which:

  * had a statistically significant amount of total cases
  * tested a huge amount of population
  * successfully contained at least one pandemic wave (flattened the curve)
  * has freedom of press and transparent government reports

Since we should analyze only reliable data, we have to exclude China, so the
only country that qualifies so far is South Korea.

## South Korea

On March 31, South Korea had:

  * 9,786 total cases
  * 162 deaths
  * 5,408 recoveries
  * 4,216 active cases
  * 5,570 closed cases (deaths + recoveries).

The widely used in mainstream media case mortality rate ( _deaths/total cases_
) was at **1.7%** , while _deaths/closed cases_ was at **3%**. Thus we can
assume that the final death rate among confirmed cases of the second global
pandemic wave in South Korea was within the range of **1.7% — 3%**.

Seems a bit better than a global **4.8% — 18.4%** , right? Well, not so fast.
The problem is that around 20% of covid-19 cases are severe or critical,
meaning that patients need a special medical care, ICU beds, and ventilators
to survive. If the national health care system is overwhelmed with patients,
then the death rate will skyrocket. Additionally, survivors of this infection
can suffer from a [permanent irreversible
damage](https://www.reddit.com/r/China_Flu/comments/fnsnuj/please_stay_the_fuck_home_this_is_what_can_happen/)
that leads to lifelong disabilities like decreased lung capacity, or be
potentially [reinfected](https://www.upi.com/Health_News/2020/03/06/Experts-
unsure-if-cured-COVID-19-patients-are-reinfected-or-relapsed/8101583529793/)
(not clear yet).

## Italy

Now let’s look at Italy, on March 31 there were:

  * 101,739 total cases
  * 11,591 deaths
  * 14,620 recovers
  * 75,528 active cases
  * 26,211 closed cases (deaths + recovers)

A commonly used case mortality rate ( _deaths/total cases_ ) was **11.4%** ,
but _deaths/closed cases_ ratio showed an astonishing **44%** death rate.

Why the difference is so huge between Italy and South Korea?

Firstly, Italian government had a shortage of test kits, which means that the
actual amount of infected people on March 31 was much higher than 100,000, but
the real death rate was lower.

Secondly, an Italian health care system was overwhelmed with patients, so
there was not enough medical staff and ICU beds to take care of all the people
in critical conditions.

## United States

For now, the situation in the US is very different.

On March 31 there were :

  * 164,359 total cases
  * 3,173 deaths
  * 5,507 recoveries
  * 155,679 active cases
  * 8,680 closed cases (deaths + recoveries)

The case mortality rate (CFR) was at **1.9%** , which is much lower than
Italy’s **11.4%** CFR. So does is that mean that the US’s health care system
is much better at handling the outbreak? Not exactly.

Here is the thing. Italy joined China’s controversial Belt and Road Initiative
in [2019](https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2019/03/italy-joins-china-belt-road-
initiative-190321170015949.html), so the Italian government had strong ties
with Beijing, and thus it was afraid to anger the CCP by implementing travel
bans and other drastic measures early enough to prevent an outbreak. As a
result, Italy was the first western country to experience a massive outbreak,
which then spread to other western countries due to EU’s open borders. Why is
it important to know that?

Well, it means that Italy is simply on a later stage of an outbreak, while the
US and other European countries are just in the beginning. Can we prove that
with numbers? Yes.

  * On March 31, the virus has already infected **0.17%** of all people in Italy, while in the US only **0.05%** of population was infected.
  * Additionally, **14%** of all infected people in Italy have already recovered from the covid-19, while in the US it’s only **3.4%**.

As we remember, the median time from development of symptoms to death is [14
days](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019%E2%80%9320_coronavirus_pandemic#Deaths),
so there was simply not enough time for real numbers to show up in the US and
the EU (except Italy and Spain). Basically, the US is still a few weeks behind
Italy.

So which path the US will take? Will it have an incredibly high death rate
like Italy or relatively small one like South Korea? This is a very hard
question, but let’s look at some important details.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1020/1*-iw2Wcc5Dwoww1-2KN6k6g.png)

Source:
[worldometers.info](https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/coronavirus-age-
sex-demographics/)

  1. People with significant comorbidities are in the risk zone, and the U.S. has the [highest obesity statistics](https://www.worldometers.info/obesity/) among 22 industrialized countries. Overweight and obesity not only lead to adverse metabolic effects on blood pressure, cholesterol, triglycerides and insulin resistance, but it also increases the risks of cancer of the breast, colon, prostate, endometroium, kidney and gallbladder.
  2. Since there is a shortage of testing kits in the US, many asymptomatic people are not being tested, so the US’s official death rate among **confirmed** cases will probably lean towards horrifying Italy’s numbers, rather than towards those in South Korea.
  3. Additionally, there is a shortage of ventilators, and health workers [don’t have enough protective equipment](https://elemental.medium.com/were-simply-going-to-hope-for-the-best-and-plan-for-the-worst-df191b8de7f4), so the capacity of the healthcare system will fall even further, as more health care workers will get sick.
  4. On the other hand, there are lots of decentralized efforts from [ordinary people](https://helpwithcovid.com/projects/13), private businesses, huge corporations, and government bodies to contain an outbreak, so that might play an important role in lowering the final death rate. However, regulations can slow down the process, so, hopefully, government bodies will ease certain requirements during a pandemic.

As we can see, the future is very unclear, and there are many variables, but a
few things we can say for sure:

  * Both the death toll and the death rate in the US will rise sharply within the next month.
  * We’re still in the beginning of the second wave, so the worst is yet to come.

## China

Now let’s go back to China. Since the coronavirus originated in China and an
initial outbreak was [covered
up](https://www.vox.com/2020/2/10/21124881/coronavirus-outbreak-china-li-
wenliang-world-health-organization) for the first few weeks, the country was
completely unprepared for the disaster. There was a shortage of testing kits,
medical staff, personal protection equipment, ICU beds, etc. Additionally, the
outbreak got out of control right before the Lunar New Year, when hundreds of
millions of Chinese travel around the country to see their families, which is
the worst thing to do during an epidemic. More than that, when the first
lockdown was imposed in Wuhan, many people with symptoms escaped the
quarantine zone out of fear.

However, for a country with **1.4 billion** people, China showed a relatively
low amount of **80,000** total cases with a relatively small **4%** case
fatality rate. Keep in mind that many asymptomatic people were not tested due
to the shortage of testing kits, and according to classified data received by
SCMP, at least around **43,000** asymptomatic positive cases [were hidden from
China’s official
report](https://twitter.com/SCMPNews/status/1241880821822189573), which means
that most of **80,000** total cases were symptomatic cases, so a real death
rate among officially published confirmed cases should have been much higher
(e.g., Italy).

So why were China’s numbers so low? Well, there are different theories, but
according to the situation that was revealed by many leaked footage and
independent journalists, who later disappeared, the CCP simply didn’t report
real numbers, which hid the severity of the outbreak.

What’s even worse, is that Beijing pressured the World Health Organization
(WHO) to convince people around the globe that the situation was under control
and there were no reasons for strict measures like travel bans (more about
that in the next article).

So should we even consider China’s official data, when analyzing the
coronavirus death rate and an efficiency of different preventive measures
taken by different governments?

Well, it’s up to you to decide.

## Final Death Rate

I’d argue that in case of Wuhan coronavirus, it’s impractical to count the
death rate of the whole course of the outbreak. The data from the first wave
cannot be trusted (China), the second wave hit developed nations with
relatively good health care systems, while [the third wave](/crypto-
punks/coronavirus-the-third-pandemic-wave-is-silently-growing-aa9ebf9ecfed)
will hit developing countries with a very limited health care system capacity.

It makes more sense to count the death rate of each pandemic wave, region,
country, or even city separately. The lowest prediction for the case fatality
rate of the second pandemic wave is probably around 3%–4%. Unfortunately,
that’s only the lowest estimation, because the actual number might be much
higher, and it will vary a lot from country to country, depending on the
weather, population density, demographics, hygiene practices, prevention
measures, national health care system, and other factors.

Additionally the virus constantly
[mutates](https://www.forbes.com/sites/lisettevoytko/2020/03/04/discovery-
of-2-strains-of-covid-19-coronavirus-hints-at-how-it-evolved/), so there might
be more waves in the future, but probably with milder symptoms.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*NUaZobmKkZtZwkT7tS81LQ.png)

Mutation tree of COVID-19. Source: [Nextstrain](https://nextstrain.org/ncov)

# Conclusion

Now we understand that the death rate can rise much higher as the virus
spreads and overwhelms the health care systems of countries around the globe.
We also understand that the virus can potentially kill more people than
seasonal flu, malaria, and HIV/AIDs combined.

In this article we’ve analyzed only the second epidemic wave, but the third
wave might be even more devastating, because it will happen in countries with
high population density and weak health care systems, e.g. India, Pakistan,
Bangladesh, Russia, Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Nigeria, Indonesia,
Philippines, etc.

[

## Coronavirus: the third pandemic wave is silently growing

### The third global wave will hit developing countries such as India,
Pakistan, Bangladesh, Russia, Nigeria, Mexico…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/coronavirus-the-third-pandemic-wave-is-silently-growing-
aa9ebf9ecfed)

China was ranked first on the coronavirus dashboard during the first epidemic
wave, the US took the lead during the second epidemic wave, and India has high
chances to become the worst-hit country during the third global pandemic wave.
_(More about the third pandemic wave in the_[ _next article_](/crypto-
punks/coronavirus-the-third-pandemic-wave-is-silently-growing-aa9ebf9ecfed)
_.)_

I’d like to finish the first article with a
[message](https://elemental.medium.com/were-simply-going-to-hope-for-the-best-
and-plan-for-the-worst-df191b8de7f4) from San Francisco General Hospital Chief
of Emergency Medicine:

> If you’re walking around outside with an N95 mask, it doesn’t make any sense
> at all. The benefit of an N95 mask is for a health-care provider who’s going
> into an enclosed small space where aerosolized secretions of a Covid-
> positive patient are being made. So if you’re hoarding N95s, please send
> them into health-care areas.

Please practice social distancing, and **educate your local community**.

  * Help inform people about the coronavirus by **clapping** 50 times 👏
  * I only write quality content about cryptocurrencies, blockchain, privacy, security, and digital resistance. Follow me or send me a direct message on [**medium**](/@SamAI_Software), [**twitter**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software), or [**mastodon**](https://mastodon.technology/@samai).

 _Here is a quick ad from a long-term sponsor, so I can continue publishing
articles without any paywall._

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*argGxGMtWZaVnWWXiyOe2g.jpeg)

Are you concerned about the Fed pouring trillions of dollars into a sinking
economy? Do you want to get some cryptos in order to diversify your portfolio
and hedge against your local fiat currency collapse?

This article is brought to you by a privacy-oriented peer-to-peer self-
custodial end-to-end encrypted marketplace
[**LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra), where you can buy &
sell cryptocurrencies for fiat money. To start trading, create a new password-
protected account or log in with your [**favorite
wallet**](https://blog.localcryptos.com/localethereum-integrates-with-
wallets/?ref=eimahra) such as Ledger, MetaMask, or mobile apps like imToken.

[ **LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra) is an industry
leader in peer-to-peer non-custodial trading and a long-term sponsor of
[CryptoPunks](https://medium.com/crypto-punks) blog.

If you’ve decided to get some cryptos, make sure to read about [most common
mistakes](/crypto-punks/how-not-to-lose-your-money-when-entering-a-crypto-
market-8b95b68d1b76) amateur investors make.

[

## How not to lose your money when entering a crypto market

### I’ve lost money in flash crashes and during a bear market. I’ve learnt it
the hard way, but I’ve learnt it. Here’s what…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/how-not-to-lose-your-money-when-entering-a-crypto-
market-8b95b68d1b76)

 _Disclaimer: I am not a licensed financial advisor, and this article is not a
financial advice. The information presented here is for educational purpose
only, it represents my personal opinion, and is not purported to be fact. I’m
not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or
alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any
content, goods, services or companies mentioned in this article. Seek a duly
licensed professional for an investment advice._

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Crypto Punks](/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
c8c7bb1dc932--------------------------------)

Crypto revolution has begun

[Read more from Crypto Punks](/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
c8c7bb1dc932--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Asuquo
Asuquo](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*hCgwUPp9lw6xImGj7k6QYA.jpeg)](/@asuquo?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Asuquo Asuquo

](/@asuquo?source=post_internal_links---------0----------------------------)

## Laundry Assistance For Our Selfless NHS Staff

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*LooopoQk_GhwN_ahGap5Yg.jpeg)](/@asuquo/laundry-
assistance-for-our-selfless-nhs-staff-6fe8b8da6ae5?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[[![dispensarytricks](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@myhavenstores-85484?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[dispensarytricks

](/@myhavenstores-85484?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## This Is How Dispensary As Medicine Can Help

![uses of
cannabis](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*KcYQQSdC1r7zR97zgIY6Jg.jpeg)](/@myhavenstores-85484/this-
is-how-dispensary-as-medicine-can-help-3a3423e2f303?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[[![Amit
Gupta](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*ubZCcOpd5KvMbt51.)](/@ag811987?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Amit Gupta

](/@ag811987?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

## Healthcare has Problems: Let’s Solve Them

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*YwfIOSBXSEMYBKk-8VHDCw.jpeg)](/@ag811987/healthcare-
has-problems-lets-solve-them-3c3f2b51bb35?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Nate
Deitz](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*BqgR3wTXULx3U8t0s6QzLg.jpeg)](/@nate.deitz?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Nate Deitz

](/@nate.deitz?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Chiropractic 101: Arcs of Life

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*DiOFXYtuRYAv5V2Z23JfTA.jpeg)](/@nate.deitz/chiropractic-101-arcs-
of-life-e2b41cc6e46c?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Sydney
Cohn](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*aMlnfZ_8oqY22e1G)](/@sec15?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Sydney Cohn

](/@sec15?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

## Vaccinations

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*RiahbY11PHUbl30jdUdeQQ.jpeg)](/@sec15/vaccinations-f01eac166671?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[[![Kelsey
Biddle](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*-thMtMmifkoV_gV8UGjssw.jpeg)](/@kbiddle616?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Kelsey Biddle

](/@kbiddle616?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[Invisible Illness

](https://medium.com/invisible-illness?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Living with Narcolepsy, Running for a Cure

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Hds9yAzjxo9PqHB066u0vQ.jpeg)](/invisible-
illness/living-with-narcolepsy-running-for-a-
cure-3242f9040188?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Gsepjjbod](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@gsepjj0bod?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Gsepjjbod

](/@gsepjj0bod?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## omeprazole nom commercial. Sans Ordonnance Ventre

](/@gsepjj0bod/omeprazole-nom-commercial-sans-ordonnance-
ventre-771a1015be2b?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![pinhsin](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*2FOYBbmxFGhl0znw.)](/@pinhsin?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[pinhsin

](/@pinhsin?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

## Just One Needle Can Take Effect: Is Acupuncture Really That Effective for
Non-Asians?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Ao9aR6bPONFvcxcFnXWh4w.jpeg)](/@pinhsin/just-
one-needle-can-take-effect-is-acupuncture-really-that-effective-for-non-
asians-e2a3bed54825?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----c8c7bb1dc932--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
c8c7bb1dc932--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
c8c7bb1dc932--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
c8c7bb1dc932--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
c8c7bb1dc932--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----c8c7bb1dc932--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----c8c7bb1dc932--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcrypto-
punks%2Fdebunking-coronavirus-myths-whats-wrong-with-the-death-
rate-c8c7bb1dc932&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Sam
Aiken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/0*KLR9G_nzD3rK1p1w.jpg)](/@SamAI_Software)

[

## Sam Aiken

](/@SamAI_Software)

1.2K Followers

We are one big community

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F3cf7356baaf9&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcrypto-
punks%2Fdebunking-coronavirus-myths-whats-wrong-with-the-death-
rate-c8c7bb1dc932&newsletterV3=39881a7541cc&newsletterV3Id=3cf7356baaf9&user=Sam+Aiken&userId=39881a7541cc&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Erwin
C](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*bBLfTSE3SrNBIQB7-G-Zjg@2x.jpeg)](/@er2win?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------530365a9_4fb3_4150_8c2a_bf67f079c190-------)

[Erwin C

](/@er2win?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
530365a9_4fb3_4150_8c2a_bf67f079c190-------)

## Why is No One Blaming The Oscars as an Institution Though?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*lgWWO3K2sVX4WmP3)](/@er2win/why-
is-no-one-blaming-the-oscars-as-an-institution-
though-20a006bb6efd?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
530365a9_4fb3_4150_8c2a_bf67f079c190-------)

[[![Aanya
Bhardwaj](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*P7o6NPQGcxS3LY2cJR6uVg@2x.jpeg)](/@bhardwajaanya44?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------530365a9_4fb3_4150_8c2a_bf67f079c190-------)

[Aanya Bhardwaj

](/@bhardwajaanya44?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
530365a9_4fb3_4150_8c2a_bf67f079c190-------)

## As a Human in the 21st century , I am Scared today.

](/@bhardwajaanya44/as-a-human-in-the-21st-century-i-am-scared-
today-b5c818d9f363?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
530365a9_4fb3_4150_8c2a_bf67f079c190-------)

[[![Eric
Tunkavige](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*6LUN6Xx1Z3rKvy0LFpcVOg.jpeg)](/@etunk711?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------530365a9_4fb3_4150_8c2a_bf67f079c190-------)

[Eric Tunkavige

](/@etunk711?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
530365a9_4fb3_4150_8c2a_bf67f079c190-------)

## The Great American Road Trip

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*eNzoOo-
QHpIisXwm95EzEw.jpeg)](/@etunk711/the-great-american-road-
trip-9bf25a66cf9?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
530365a9_4fb3_4150_8c2a_bf67f079c190-------)

[[![John
Archer](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*nCtzXXwkLPV5gydZcGTrxQ.jpeg)](/@John_archer?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------530365a9_4fb3_4150_8c2a_bf67f079c190-------)

[John Archer

](/@John_archer?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
530365a9_4fb3_4150_8c2a_bf67f079c190-------)

in

[ILLUMINATION

](https://medium.com/illumination?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------530365a9_4fb3_4150_8c2a_bf67f079c190-------)

## Why do we bury our dead?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*EtKI5Ej-
pKXHQa4AsDmqUQ.jpeg)](/illumination/why-do-we-bury-our-
dead-9c324e5695a1?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
530365a9_4fb3_4150_8c2a_bf67f079c190-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

