For better experience, please enable JavaScript.

[Multicoin Capital](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * Media
  * More
  * [Contact](/contact/)

![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

  * [English](/2018/09/14/debunking-market-narratives-litecoin-ltc-edition/)
  * [中文](/zh/2018/09/14/debunking-market-narratives-litecoin-ltc-edition/)
  * [한국어](/ko/2018/09/14/debunking-market-narratives-litecoin-ltc-edition/)
  * 日本語

![](data:image/png;base64,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)

### Search posts

dark mode

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

  * [Archives](https://github.com/multicoincapital/crypto-archives)
  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)

[Writing](/blog/category/blog/)

## Debunking Market Narratives: Litecoin ($LTC) Edition

By [Tushar Jain](/about#63bba82a-55ea-5a7a-89c9-11a446410fec)

September 14, 2018 | 16 Minute Read

![Copy URL to clipboard
button](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

 _Disclosure: Multicoin Capital is short LTC._

Narratives are an immensely powerful tool, so much so, that experts generally
attribute civilization’s rapid development to humans’ ability to efficiently
tell stories. Due to their impact on human behavior, narratives can
significantly affect our perception of value. In the current crypto market
climate, reality is often overlooked in favor of narrative propagation. As
such, it is important to evaluate the accuracy of popular beliefs, and
separate the signal from the noise. Let us delve deeper through an analysis of
Litecoin.

 **1\. Introduction**

Litecoin’s longevity within the crypto-ecosystem is often misconceived as a
fundamental indicator of value. Hailed as the silver to bitcoin’s gold, a
fundamental store of value, BTC’s testnet and the best medium of exchange in
crypto, the market values the network at [~$3
billion](https://coinmarketcap.com/currencies/litecoin/).

In truth, Litecoin is a relic of the pre-smart contract platform crypto
ecosystem. Perception resulting from these outdated narratives has led to a
large divergence between current price and fundamental value. This includes:

  1. Maturation of the market away from 2017 conditions that facilitated Litecoin’s rally
  2. Substantial negative catalysts in the near-to-mid term, including additional Coinbase listings, Segwit and Lightning Network adoption reducing the demand for LTC, and lack of material development efforts on LTC
  3. The Litecoin Foundation has almost no resources, Litecoin development has almost completely stopped, and Litecoin founder Charlie Lee has sold 100% of his LTC stake.
  4. No sustainable way to [fund security](https://twitter.com/TusharJain_/status/1039350372157059072) of the LTC network over the long term

We will elaborate by providing an overview and background of Litecoin, before
analyzing the present narratives and investment thesis, the 2017 rally, and
important catalysts in the near-to mid-term that have the potential to distort
narratives moving forward.

 **2\. Overview and Background**

As the first successfully created altcoin, it is important to understand the
historical significance of LTC and the positive and negative consequences of
this importance today.

 **2.1 Founding Litecoin Vision**

Prior to Litecoin’s launch, advancements in GPU mining had rendered mining BTC
with CPUs unprofitable. Charlie Lee [saw](https://www.coindesk.com/litecoin-
founder-charles-lee-on-the-origins-and-potential-of-the-worlds-second-largest-
cryptocurrency/) this as a shift away from fairness and decentralization. This
perceived paradigm shift sparked the development of Litecoin in 2011.

In order to create an altcoin optimized for CPU mining, early Litecoin
developers implemented various changes to Bitcoin’s code base. These changes
included replacements: (1) Hash algorithm: SHA256 → Scrypt, (2) Block Time: 10
minutes → 2.5 minutes, and (3) Coin Limit: 21 million → 84 million.

Of the changes implemented, the replacement of SHA256 with Scrypt is the most
notable. Scrypt is less complex and highly memory intensive. Its simplicity
allows for a lower hashrate, while its memory requirement creates additional
complexity in the development of mining hardware. As a result, Litecoin mining
has been more distributed than Bitcoin mining for most of Litecoin’s
existence—up until recently.

 **2.2 Litecoin Today**

Lee’s original vision may have had merit in 2011, but the ecosystem has
evolved dramatically since. His initial vision of fairness and
decentralization through low barriers to entry mining has ultimately become
obsolete. Not only have open-source software developers written GPU mining
implementations for Litecoin, but Bitmain has also released [Litecoin
ASICs](https://www.amazon.com/AntMiner-L3-504MH-Litecoin-Miner/dp/B06Y6KTH7P).
Litecoin mining today is as structurally
[centralized](https://arewedecentralizedyet.com/) as Bitcoin mining.

Notably, Lee sold his entire LTC holdings and no longer has any skin in the
game. He announced his sales on December 20, 2017, a date on which LTC was
trading around [$322](https://www.wsj.com/articles/cryptocurrency-founder-
tries-a-new-play-sell-it-all-1513873355).

A founder selling their entire holdings is a massive red flag. Lee cited
reasons including decentralization, financial distance, and other conflicts of
interest for his sale. Despite his intentions, a misalignment of incentives
now exists that decreases his motivation to continue development and add value
to the protocol. To better achieve this goal, we would have liked to see him
time-lock his holdings or use them to fund further LTC development.

 **3\. Litecoin’s Features and Proposed Use Cases**

Notwithstanding the current irrelevance of Lee’s original vision, Litecoin’s
differences relative to Bitcoin are often cited as comparative advantages that
justify Litecoin’s network value. The advantages cited most often include: (1)
Increased throughput and shorter confirmation times, (2) lower-fee
transactions, (3) eagerness to test and implement new features, and (4)
compatibility with BTC and ability to leverage its R&D.

The uniqueness and importance of these features are frequently overstated,
which has led to the emergence of 4 distinct narratives: (1) Litecoin as a
Medium of Exchange (MoE), (2) Litecoin as a Store of Value (SoV, i.e., “the
silver to Bitcoin’s gold”), (3) Bitcoin’s testnet, and (4) Long term
viability. Let’s explore each of these in detail.

 **3.1 Litecoin as a Medium of Exchange**

 **Narrative:** Bitcoin’s transaction time and cost will inhibit its adoption
as a MoE. On the contrary, Litecoin’s faster and cheaper transactions will
lead to adoption by merchants for payments of goods and services.

 **Analysis:** Litecoin is not uniquely positioned to become a MoE and there
is no substantial evidence of its adoption. The MoE sector is flooded with
competition from well-established projects such as Lightning Network, BCH, and
the entire ecosystem of smart-contract platforms.

Litecoin’s adoption is generally shown using qualitative evidence of merchants
accepting Litecoin. Merchants accepting Litecoin also generally accept a
basket of other cryptoassets because crypto payment processors such as BitPay
support many cryptocurrencies. Merchants are not explicitly choosing to
support Litecoin payments. Rather, they’re electing to accept payment in any
crypto, of which Litecoin is just
[one](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1EE60noh-
mfEy767LpFI_WFvnuTiBL5qDhxsFa_WXrDY/edit?usp=sharing).

Further, the Litecoin Foundation’s specific payment processor, Litepay,
[ceased operation](https://litecoin-foundation.org/2018/03/announcement-on-
litepay/) earlier this year in March, thoroughly discrediting this narrative
of Litcoin as a superior MoE.

Additionally, Bitcoin’s network traffic and materially higher fees that
facilitated LTC’s use as a payment rail in 2017 no longer exist. Bitcoin’s
mempool is currently empty, fees are nominal, and confirmation times are
reasonable. We believe that the development of Lightning Network, increased
SegWit adoption, and other faster/more scalable blockchains will ensure that
Litecoin will no longer be an attractive payment rail.

 **3.2 Litecoin as a Store of Value — “The Silver to Bitcoin’s Gold”**

 **Narrative:** As with precious metals, numerous SoVs will coexist, and
Litecoin is the silver to Bitcoin’s gold.

 **Analysis:** Comparing digital assets to precious metals may be a nice
analogy, but it does not have any substance. The value of the ratio of silver-
to-gold is based on the idea of price-to-weight ratio. A lower price-to-weight
ratio makes payments for smaller purchases more convenient. Digital assets are
weightless, and thus the same analysis cannot be made.

Additionally, if we call Litecoin silver to Bitcoin’s gold, there is no reason
why the same could not be said about a multitude of other crypto assets.
Lastly, silver retains some value for industrial and jewellery applications.
Neither is applicable to crypto. As a SoV in general, Litecoin’s lack of
unique features and utility will inhibit it from capturing any meaningful
long-term value and will erode this brand position.

 **3.3 Litecoin as Bitcoin’s Testnet**

 **Narrative:** Litecoin plays a valuable role in the ecosystem as a testnet
for Bitcoin. Consensus to implement improvements have been easier to achieve
on Litecoin, and historically, the Litecoin dev team has been quicker to
implement improvements. Examples of this include Segwit and Lightning.

 **Analysis:** While this may be valuable for Bitcoin, citing this as a reason
for billions of dollars of value retention is simply nonsensical. Bitcoin
simply does not need a separate $3B testnet.

This is not an investment thesis, but a false narrative that has emerged most
likely due of the lack of any other viable alternative. Additionally, due to
the lack of Litecoin-specific engineering and product development, no one
—including the Litecoin bulls—makes the argument that Litecoin will forge some
new, independent path.

One common fallacy in crypto is that tokens have value because they have a
cost to produce. While this logic is appealing at first glance, it does not
actually justify any value. Value is only justified via marginal demand. To
make the argument that Litecoin should be valuable as Bitcoin’s testnet, that
means that Bitcoin holders must voluntarily choose to sell some Bitcoin in
exchange for Litecoin in order to support the testnet to the tune of $3B. This
is a ridiculous assertion.

 **3.4 Viability of Long-Term Security**

 **Narrative:** In the future cheap and fast transactions will continue to be
sustainable even as block rewards decrease. The protocol can simply rely more
heavily on transaction fees to fund security.

 **Analysis:** Chart 1 shows the decrease in LTC block rewards over time.
Today, each LTC block has a 25 LTC reward, equating to a daily security budget
of 14,400 LTC (~$750,000). In 2028, according to the halving schedule, each
LTC block will have a 3.125 LTC reward (1,800 LTC per day). Excluding
transaction fees, the LTC security budget will be cut by 87.5% over the next
10 yrs.

![LTC block
rewards](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/5k8oeYzOOf5Zj3NA3pFpl6/1e3c11b3e0d6483e028b04073ac4df4b/LTC_block_rewards.png)

 **(Chart 1) LTC block rewards over time**

While this decrease in the block reward is true for Bitcoin as well, Litecoin
claims cheap transactions as a key differentiator while Bitcoin does not. The
Litecoin community will have an extremely difficult question to answer: should
the Litecoin network allow security to evaporate alongside block rewards, or
should it lose the key value proposition of the brand (cheap transactions)?

Table 1 below shows the tradeoff more clearly. As block rewards decrease, in
order to maintain the security budget and low cost transactions, the number of
transactions must increase rapidly. If the Litecoin community wishes to
maintain the current narrative of cheap transactions ([currently 0.0008 LTC
per
transaction](https://coinmetrics.io/charts/#assets=ltc_left=averageFeeCurrencyUnit_zoom=1367107200000,1536710400000))
the # of necessary transactions to maintain the security of the network will
surpass the network’s capacity to process those transactions.

![chart2](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/4uzK5l8JBtZjBKqL3yOKFm/bd1d564a4d9b85c857ad9e229932e935/chart2.png)

 **(Table 1) LTC security budget**

 **4\. The 2017 Rally**

Despite the lack of a viable investment thesis, Litecoin rallied in 2017 along
with the rest of the crypto market. This is also important to understand.
During the rally, the market experienced exponential growth in consumer and
altcoin interest, additional capital for diversification, and demand for a
comfortable entry point into the space.

These market conditions existed during a period in which Coinbase was the
dominant US exchange, and Coinbase only traded BTC, ETH and LTC during this
time. During December 2017 alone, Coinbase users increased 95% to over [4.3
million](https://www.statista.com/statistics/803531/number-of-coinbase-
users/). As the asset with the lowest nominal price on Coinbase, many naive
investors bought Litecoin because they didn’t understand that they could buy a
fraction of a $10,000 Bitcoin. As will be discussed in the following section,
the market conditions that allowed for Litecoin’s rise no longer exist.

 **5\. Negative Catalysts**

We expect multiple strong negative catalysts over the coming months:

  1. Growth in Coinbase listings rapidly diminishing Litecoin’s position as the comfortable entry point into crypto for naive investors who don’t understand that you can purchase fractional coins
  2. Increased usability and higher capacity of Bitcoin resulting from Segwit and Lightning adoption
  3. Viability of Lightning Network as a payment rail
  4. No differentiated roadmap for LTC
  5. Persistent selling pressure due to mining
  6. Bitmain [owns](https://www.trustnodes.com/2018/08/12/bitmain-holds-one-million-bitcoin-cash-ltc-22000-bitcoins-almost-no-eth) over 1M LTC and is likely to sell the LTC to continue their support for BCH

 **5.1 Coinbase Listings**

As discussed in section 4, LTC rallied heavily in 2017 as the least expensive
per-unit asset on Coinbase. On August 7th 2018, ETC was
[listed](https://www.coindesk.com/ethereum-classic-is-down-30-since-its-
listing-on-coinbase/) on Coinbase, usurping LTC’s seat as the least expensive
per-unit asset. ETC’s listing is a harbinger of increased asset support as
Coinbase [considers](https://blog.coinbase.com/coinbase-is-exploring-cardano-
basic-attention-token-stellar-zcash-and-0x-9e44f0eb823f) other assets. As the
quality, range, and prices of assets listed on Coinbase increases, the demand
for Litecoin will decrease simply through dilution of mindshare and an
increased number of options.

![ETC
announcement](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/KezDUFQuplQQ4WNiGLGTl/41f5cde003b75472a821323a9267c435/ETC_announcement.png)

 **(Chart 2) LTC Return against market following ETC Announcement ([data
source](https://coinmarketcap.com/))**

Quantitatively, we can see the effects of Coinbase announcements on Litecoin’s
performance. Charts 2 and 3 show Litecoin’s 20-day performance following the
announcements of BCH and ETC. LTC underperformed the market by 34% following
the BCH announcement and by 13% following the ETC announcement. Given
Litecoin’s ~1 market beta over the past 12-months, we can not simply attribute
this underformance to Litecoin being more volatile than the market. As
Coinbase is one of the largest capital inflows to Litecoin, the expected rapid
growth of listings on Coinbase in the near-midterm will likely lead to a
decrease in price.

![BCH
announcement](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/7ihP078rR1EllI4WvExK3K/2bb0b252f0da8c821ff7aaa2828dea03/BCH_announcement.png)

 **(Chart 3) LTC Return against market following BCH Announcement ([data
source](https://coinmarketcap.com/))**

 **5.2 Bitcoin Usability From Segwit**

Bitcoin will become more usable – both in the form of aggregate throughput and
lower fees – as Segwit adoption grows and as exchanges roll out Segwit
implementations. Coinbase and Bitfinex began their Segwit support earlier this
year. Coinbase’s implementation in early March led to a 17% increase in segwit
adoption alone. Today, increased [adoption](http://charts.woobull.com/bitcoin-
segwit-adoption/) has already allowed for persistently low confirmation
[times](https://www.blockchain.com/charts/avg-confirmation-time?) and fees.
Further integration will continue increase the performance of the Bitcoin
network, and consequently will diminish the remaining utility of Litecoin.

**5.3 Lightning Network Success**

While Segwit adoption has, and will continue to enhance Bitcoin’s efficiency,
it has also allowed for the implementation of Lightning. Lightning, which went
live in March, has already significantly decreased Bitcoin transaction
[fees](https://www.blockchain.com/charts/transaction-fees-usd?timespan=1year).
Currently, there are over 3,000 mainnet Lightning nodes, and capacity expanded
85% in July alone. Lightning’s viability as a payment rail is rapidly gaining
traction, and we expect dramatic increases in performance as a result.
Additionally, payment rails with Lightning, as well atomic swaps, have paved
the way for increased utility and functionality of Bitcoin. We are seeing a
dramatic increase in development on this layer, and expect this to continue.

 **5.4 Lack Of A Differentiated Roadmap**

As discussed with the narrative around Litecoin as Bitcoin’s testnet,
Litecoin-specific development is sparse. While Litecoin may be willing to
implement features more quickly than Bitcoin, Litecoin is not working on
anything unique. The latest Litecoin roadmap was
[posted](https://www.reddit.com/r/litecoin/comments/71enjy/litecoin_technology_and_general_timelines/)
11-months ago, and includes: (1) MAST, (2) Lightning Network, (3) Atomic
Swaps, (4) Covenants, (5) Confidential Transactions, and (6) Colored Coins.
Not one development included in this roadmap is specific to Litecoin, and we
have not seen meaningful activity or communication from the Litecoin dev team
in 2018. More importantly, the perceived marginal advantages of Litecoin over
Bitcoin will continue to diminish over time as Bitcoin implements these same
features.

Chart 4 shows the number of Litecoin Github commits over the past 12 months.
In 2018, there has been almost no commits at the master. This data is often
misconstrued as an indicator of the dev team’s activity. The team does not
develop at master, and a new version of core was recently
[released](https://blog.litecoin.org/litecoin-
core-v0-16-2-release-d9a4692cf18d). We argue that the lack of development at
master is a function of the majority of updates being forked from Bitcoin Core
and its associated repos. Litecoin may not have been completely abandoned by
developers, but there are no new material developments that can be attributed
to Litecoin.

![githubcomments](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/1eOpT1jelXKPVFqv4uPdDr/7c129849816b1e6cfabad57578aa1f87/githubcomments.png)

 **(Chart 4) Litecoin Github Commits ([data
source](https://cryptomiso.com/))**

On top of this, the Litecoin Foundation’s financial health is at risk, and
their ability to continue operating is questionable. Per the foundation’s
[financials](https://litecoin-foundation.org/2018/07/unaudited-financial-
statements-2018-05/), their assets as of May 31 assets are worth ~$322k. Table
2 shows the breakdown of their assets.

![table2](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/7hB25JrsdFj01P7frjiH2x/ed468d50db4133bbecd79e4bc0dbd065/table2.png)

 **(Table 2) Litecoin foundation financials ([data source](https://litecoin-
foundation.org/2018/07/unaudited-financial-statements-2018-05/))**

Of this amount, only 1.2% is currently held in cash, and 81.65% of their
assets are held in LTC. This does not bode well for the future role of the
foundation.

 **5.5 Persistent Selling Pressure From Miners**

LTC, like all cryptocurrencies based on proof-of-work mining, faces perpetual
downwards price pressure as miners must sell LTC that they mine in order to
pay fiat-denominated expenses. This pressure is attributed to the creation of
LTC every block. As discussed previously, the current block reward for mining
Litecoin is 25 LTC, and blocks are mined every 2.5 minutes, resulting in
14,400 new LTC being mined across 576 blocks daily. At current prices, miners
are mining $750K worth of Litecoin daily. Additionally, during bear markets,
miners are more likely to sell their rewards in order to cover operational
costs. As marginal demand diminishes, persistent sell pressure from miners
will exacerbate price declines given the natural reflexivity of an asset that
[cannot be valued, but only
priced](http://aswathdamodaran.blogspot.com/2017/10/the-bitcoin-boom-asset-
currency.html).

This is in addition to the 1M LTC held by Bitmain which may be sold in order
to support the BCH price.

 **6\. Summary**

In conclusion, the current narratives used to defend Litecoin’s value appear
to be fundamentally inaccurate and based on insignificant evidence. To
summarize:

  1. No matter the perceived use case (e.g., SoV/MoE), Litecoin’s features and advantages are not optimized to thrive within crypto’s quickly evolving and competitive landscape.
  2. Maturation of the market away from 2017 conditions that facilitated Litecoin’s rally will continue to apply downward pressure on price.
  3. Substantial negative catalysts in the near-to-mid term, including additional Coinbase listings, Segwit and Lightning Network adoption, and lack of any material development on Litecoin are not sufficiently priced in.

Litecoin has traded within a range of $41 and $358 over the past 52 weeks.
Hovering at approximately $50, we believe LTC is significantly overvalued.
Given the lack of a viable investment thesis, nonexistent positive catalysts
and strong negative catalysts, we expect LTC to continue to substantially
underperform the crypto market.

 _Disclosure: Multicoin Capital is short LTC._

*As of the publication date of this report, Multicoin Capital Management LLC and its affiliates (collectively “Multicoin”), others that contributed research to this report and others that we have shared our research with (collectively, the “Investors”) may have long or short positions in and may own options on the token of the project covered herein and stand to realize gains in the event that the price of the token increases or decreases. Following publication of the report, the Investors may transact in the tokens of the project covered herein. All content in this report represent the opinions of Multicoin. Multicoin has obtained all information herein from sources they believe to be accurate and reliable. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. *

 _This document is for informational purposes only and is not intended as an
official confirmation of any transaction. All market prices, data and other
information are not warranted as to completeness or accuracy, are based upon
selected public market data, and reflect prevailing conditions and Multicoin’s
views as of this date, all of which are accordingly subject to change without
notice. Multicoin has no obligation to continue offering reports regarding the
project. Reports are prepared as of the date(s) indicated and may become
unreliable because of subsequent market or economic circumstances._

 _Any investment involves substantial risks, including, but not limited to,
pricing volatility, inadequate liquidity, and the potential complete loss of
principal. This report’s estimated fundamental value only represents a best
efforts estimate of the potential fundamental valuation of a specific token,
and is not expressed as, or implied as, assessments of the quality of a token,
a summary of past performance, or an actionable investment strategy for an
investor._

 _This document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an
offer to buy or sell any investment or token discussed herein._

 _The information contained in this document may include, or incorporate by
reference, forward-looking statements, which would include any statements that
are not statements of historical fact. These forward-looking statements may
turn out to be wrong and can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known
or unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, most of which are beyond
Multicoin’s control. Investors should conduct independent due diligence, with
assistance from professional financial, legal and tax experts, on all tokens
discussed in this document and develop a stand-alone judgment of the relevant
markets prior to making any investment decision._

+ Show More

[Read NextToken Curated Registries: Features and Tradeoffs](/2018/09/05/tcrs-
features-and-tradeoffs/)

![Tushar
Jain](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/3LcBoPhx9u1NmekXCX3wrZ/92b8479a9a588548f7999117841eac85/tushar_jain__1_.jpg)

By [Tushar Jain](/about#63bba82a-55ea-5a7a-89c9-11a446410fec)

[@tusharjain_](https://twitter.com/TusharJain_)

More Tags

[Writing](/blog/category/blog/)[Featured](/blog/category/featured/)[Podcasts](/podcasts/)[Videos](/videos/)

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER FOR THE BEST INSIGHTS IN CRYPTO

[![phoenix](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/72L5sEuJXOA7PvWBZM540E/27909d6ff5cda80158665ca43514b11c/phoenix_logo_white.svg)Subscribe](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)

* * *

  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)

  * [Podcasts](/podcasts/)
  * [Videos](/videos/)
  * [Subscribe](https://multicoin.capital/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

### GET IN TOUCH

We’re always looking for compelling ideas, business, and partnership
opportunities. We also enjoy reading your feedback. If you’re submitting a
business proposal, please include a clear description and any resources that
could help us evaluate your opportunity.

[hello@multicoin.capital](mailto:hello@multicoin.capital)

* * *

![Multicoin
Capital](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

## Multicoin Capital

©2017-2021 Multicoin Capital. All Rights Reserved.

