[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Decentralized Data Exchanges Give Value To Data In Smart Cities

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Decentralized Data Exchanges Give Value To Data In Smart Cities

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

# Data marketplaces are an emerging piece of the stack providing the necessary
tools for trading, purchase and selling of data and digital assets.

## By Vangelis Andrikopoulos and Lawrence Lundy-Bryan



Posted by Lawrence Lundy - June 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

## These marketplaces are made possible because of the technologies lower in
stack from hardware, distribution, routing, verification, and interfacing. To
learn more about the Convergence Stack, a valuable framework for understanding
and building the next phase of digital infrastructure in cities, **d[ownload
the paper](https://outlierventures.io/research/decentralised-and-open-data-
turns-dubai-into-a-smart-city/) here.**

### Decentralised Data Marketplaces

Without a free flow of data, there cannot be cross-collaboration between
companies, residents, governmental bodies and entrepreneurs. Innovation cannot
flourish and current data silos cause asymmetric advantages, fragmentation and
work against the ecosystem-wide trust needed for innovation at scale. Many
cities are already working on open data frameworks including Dubai, London,
San Diego, and San Francisco. These are powerful initiatives, but they can be
supercharged when combined with decentralised technologies. Making data
exchanges decentralised unleashes a wave of permissionless services, and
business model innovation that isn’t possible when a single company or
administration controls the exchange and network.

Four specific types of new decentralised marketplace have already emerged: IoT
data markets, AI data markets, personal data markets and digital assets
marketplaces including crypto-assets, but also more exotic assets like non-
fungible tokens (NFTs) and software bots. Let’s explore a few of them below.

### Artificial Intelligence Data Marketplaces

With the emergence of deep learning as a tool for a range of applications like
facial recognition and natural language processing, we now have the potential
to refine data to make digital oil. In most cases, data for AI algorithms
tends to be accumulated by the largest companies. Decentralised AI data
marketplaces can reduce, and eventually remove, the competitive advantage of
hoarding private data by enabling anybody to contribute and use data. This
will dramatically increase the number of contributors and users in a more
equitable digital infrastructure.

For a city, artificial intelligence marketplaces can be a powerful tool. The
single biggest challenge for all but a handful of Internet giants is the
difficulty in accessing enough high-quality data to feed AI algorithms. This
lack of access and ability to acquire the data, has already led to winner-
take-all dynamics in a few technology areas like search, social media and
e-commerce. As artificial intelligence follows software by ‘eating the world’,
almost every product regardless of the market - healthcare, education,
transportation, e-government services - will be infused with the powers of AI.

![Decentralized Data Exchanges Give Value To Data In Smart Cities Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/shutterstock_363508961.jpg)

The challenge for cities is being able to foster a competitive environment for
the delivery of services. Scenarios in which services are delivered by just a
few market winners are sub-optimal. It is plurality and variety of supply that
citizen needs and innovation potential will be balanced with business
interests. A decentralised marketplace where data can be bought and sold and,
with the right incentives, provided by crypto-tokens, can give service
providers access to more data and at the same time enable citizens,
organisations, and all sorts of bodies to monetise data. Smaller vehicle fleet
operators, for example, can train their autonomous vehicles and level the
field of competition with Waymo and Tesla.

Fetch.AI is solving the aforementioned problems by using machine learning and
AI to enable people make use of their data. Digital entities, called
Autonomous Economic Agents, can act independently on users’ data to solve
problems, transact and represent themselves, services, devices or individuals.

### Personal Data Marketplaces

After peer-to-peer payments, control of personal data has been one of the most
talked about applications for blockchains. This is related to but separate
from self-sovereign identity, in the sense that once an individual controls
their own identity, they can choose who can have access to it. This choice
puts the individual in the position of the seller and the party who wants
access to the data as the buyer.

Current data silos that gather data by providing “free” products have control
over users’ data, especially the ones that are saved in data centers outside
the reach of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Users are unable
to own, control or monetise their data which results in an unfair economic
transaction. With personal data marketplaces, smart city goods and services
providers are incentivised to follow best practices in regards to privacy,
security similar or equal to GDPR. If they fail to do so as well as provide
the best service, citizens could just opt out from sharing their data. This
leads to a citizen-centric ecosystem which is the essence of a smart city.
Residents can monetise data gathered from interacting with e-government
services, their smart energy use or their lifestyle habits and profit while
choosing who, how and when their data is sold.

Wibson has launched a blockchain-powered decentralised data marketplace that
enables individuals to securely sell validated personal information in a
trusted environment. Users can use Wibson’s iOS and Android apps to connect to
data sources such as their social media, mobile device location and other
sources; they are then able to sell their data and get rewarded accordingly.

### IoT Data Marketplaces

IoT data is already being captured and collected in vast quantities by sensors
on infrastructure, vehicles, and user devices, but the sprawl of devices has
created a fragmented ecosystem. On the consumer side, operating system
providers like Apple, Google, and Amazon are attempting to leverage their
dominant position in smartphones and retail to sell increasing numbers of
devices to collect more data.

As we saw, IoT devices can be owned by several parties in the smart city
ecosystem that might not share the same incentives, goals and ambitions.
Fragmented data collection from IoT devices in combination with misaligned
business models results in poor collaboration, innovation and user experience
for residents. IoT data marketplaces incentivise constituents including smart
building owners, federal and local governments, autonomous vehicles fleet
operators and citizens to share and exchange their data on those marketplaces.
More entrepreneurs and companies can provide value which is driven by healthy
competition and in turn, increases the overall value of the smart city.

Decentralised data exchanges will unlock value from data. We now need to put a
real value on it to drive a sustainable and equitable data ecosystem.
[**Download the paper**](https://outlierventures.io/research/decentralised-
and-open-data-turns-dubai-into-a-smart-city/) **here to understand more:**

![Decentralized Data Exchanges Give Value To Data In Smart Cities Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/SmartCities_Social-21.jpg)



_This article is for information purposes only and does not constitute
investment advice. This article does not amount to an invitation or inducement
to buy or sell an investment nor does it solicit any such offer or invitation
in any jurisdiction._

_In all cases, readers should conduct their own investigation and analysis of
the data in the article. All statements of opinion and/or belief contained in
this article and all views expressed and all projections, forecasts or
statements relating to expectations regarding future events represent Outlier
Ventures Operation Limited own assessment and interpretation of information
available as at the date of this article._

_No responsibility or liability is accepted by Outlier Ventures Operations
Limited or Sapia Partners LLP for reliance on the contents of this article._

_Outlier Ventures is an Appointed Representative of Sapia Partners LLP, a firm
authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)._

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

