[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Decentralised And Open Data Is The Foundation Of A Smart City

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Decentralised And Open Data Is The Foundation Of A Smart City

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

# As cities become the preeminent arena for economic growth and global
problem-solving, we expect to see city-states lead to the development of
digital infrastructure to support the Fourth Industrial Revolution.

## By Vangelis Andrikopoulos and Lawrence Lundy-Bryan

Posted by Lawrence Lundy - June 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

## This new infrastructure requires a host of technologies from the hardware
to secure the data to the tools to distribute the data like distributed
ledgers. It will also need new routing and authentication technologies,
interfacing technologies to make it easier to build applications, and new
services, marketplaces and applications for users to benefit from what we hope
to be a more equitable digital infrastructure.

The free flow of data is imperative for collaboration, innovation, and fairer
economic relationships. It comes in the form of strong cryptography,
distributed ledgers, and crypto-tokens that provide the backbone for a secure,
auditable and peer-to-peer digital infrastructure. [Download the
paper](https://outlierventures.io/research/decentralised-and-open-data-turns-
dubai-into-a-smart-city/) here to understand more.

![Decentralised And Open Data Is The Foundation Of A Smart City Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/ov_sd_squarehero_586px.gif)



### Data at the heart of city renewal

The amount of data created annually will reach 180 zettabytes by 2025, up from
4.4 zettabytes in 2013. A zettabyte is approximately equal to a billion
terabytes; this amount of data isn’t merely ‘big’, it is colossal. The average
person will interact with connected devices every 18 seconds (nearly 4,800
times a day) in six years’ time. IoT devices surpassed the number of humans in
2017 and are expected to reach 20.4 billion by 2020. Data is the single most
important resource for the economy of the future and to create a level playing
field, we have to break current data silos that lead to an asymmetric
advantage and stifle innovation.

Massive deployment of the IoT including chips, sensors and actuators in
combination with the digitisation of services, results in the creation and
collection of massive amounts of data. By processing and analysing data, we
can transform data-driven value to data-driven business models and services.
Numerous city governing bodies are opening up their data and are inviting
corporations, citizens and entrepreneurs to utilise it, come up with
innovative solutions and create digital wealth.

![Decentralised And Open Data Is The Foundation Of A Smart City Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/shutterstock_207942496-1.jpg)

Aligning incentives, resolving conflict over data ownership and utilising
security to unleash growth

Aligning incentives

A lack of solid business models and misaligned incentives have been slowing
the development of smart city initiatives for a long time. Governments by
their very nature do not have profit as a top priority but businesses,
especially large businesses required for large scale city infrastructure
programs, need to have clear return-on-investment numbers and a solid business
model.

This is particularly challenging in the smart city space, as the buyers of
city or public services typically indirectly purchase through local or
national taxes. Buyers need to be constantly alert to the distortions created
by focussing too keenly on reducing short-term costs rather than increasing
service levels or long-term sustainability. Further challenges are presented
by the lack of funding and expertise in many city governments to implement
complex long-term smart city projects. This is exacerbated by the fact the
technology is new and the skills in which to take advantage of the technology
take longer to reach the public sector.

Confusing data ownership and data silos

The big challenge across an ever-increasing range of industries and value
chains is ownership of data. Not just from a personal privacy perspective, but
also between organisations. At the moment, private companies are controlling
data in vast quantities, but as it slowly dawns on cities that this data is
the lifeblood of public services, they are pressing for change. Transport for
London has suggested it is considering forcing private hire operators like
Uber to share data as part of new licensing regulations, while Airbnb is
taking the City of New York to court so it doesn’t have to share hosts’ names
and addresses.

It is not yet clear who owns the ever-increasing amount of data that is being
created by and for the city. For example, in a drone delivery scenario: is it
the user of a drone delivery service? The creator of the drone delivery
service? The owner of the drone themselves? The owner of the spectrum? Or the
city council? The same questions need to be answered for all public services
and spaces, and increasingly private spaces like homes. Arriving at answers to
questions like these will release full smart city development potential.

### Data is the key ingredient that drives data-driven business models and
decisions, unlocking new economic value

We are shifting from the current closed value chain towards an open value
ecosystem. For example, energy production is undertaken by industrial and
corporate energy vendors in a centralised manner, distributed to gas stations
and then consumed in a rigid one-way transactional fashion. In the coming open
value ecosystem, energy can be produced with solar panels, distributed on a
transitive blockchain-based smart grid and consumed by the consumers
(prosumers). Digitisation turns our passive tools active. As infrastructure
and energy trend towards commoditisation, new economic value emerges from the
production, collection, and analysis of data. This trend is reflected in all
the other segments of smart cities.

Participants such as citizens, prosumers, software companies and local
entrepreneurs who previously captured little to no value are now capturing
more of that value. The success of this value-driven ecosystem depends on the
premise that the right mechanisms are put in place to incentivise participants
to share data and break current data silos.

Data is the core resource at the heart of smart cities. We only need to look
at the big data factories such as Google, Facebook and Amazon to understand
how much data is worth. It has granted these companies unprecedented network
effects - the more data they control, the better their services are; the
stronger the asymmetric advantage, the harder it is for new businesses to
compete and deliver innovation. The free flow of data is necessary for open
innovation, collaborative and fairer economic relationships. Distributed
ledgers powered by strong cryptography and crypto-tokens can provide the
foundations for a secure, transparent and peer-to-peer digital infrastructure
of smart cities.

[Download the paper](https://outlierventures.io/research/decentralised-and-
open-data-turns-dubai-into-a-smart-city/) here to understand more.

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

