[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/519ab2861793&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Crypto
Punks](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*RuBSr8PcbcSSimYWrpQsHA.png)](https://medium.com/crypto-
punks?source=post_page-----519ab2861793--------------------------------)

Published in

[Crypto Punks

](https://medium.com/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
519ab2861793--------------------------------)

[![Sam
Aiken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/0*KLR9G_nzD3rK1p1w.jpg)](/@SamAI_Software?source=post_page
-----519ab2861793--------------------------------)

[Sam Aiken](/@SamAI_Software?source=post_page-----
519ab2861793--------------------------------)

Follow

Sep 11, 2019

·

21 min read

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*7THRl1DtP1QEeL2M0SrbBA.jpeg)

Image: [Lai Man Nung](https://unsplash.com/photos/_CZwOK0oJK8)

# Decentralized governance: inside Hong Kong’s open source revolution (LIHKG,
Reddit, Pincong, GitHub)

## Dear passengers, welcome to Hong Kong, Cypherpunk Harbour. Please wipe out
your chat logs, photos, videos, browsing history, and put on a mask before
proceeding to a counter. Enjoy your stay and [be
water](https://twitter.com/HongKongHermit/status/1163842708307238913).

 _Disclaimer: in this article we focus on organization and tech, rather than
politics. To Chinese nationalists: if you disagree with information below,
feel free to participate in the discussion in a civil and polite way. Both
sides have a right to speak out, that’s called freedom of speech. And if you
think that I’m a pro-US shill, then read my article about_[ _US
imperialism_](/crypto-punks/how-to-onboard-your-folks-to-crypto-1-from-gold-
to-petroyuan-de-dollarization-a3dc29201210) _. To HK activists: the
information is taken from open sources such as public tg groups, lihkg,
reddit, so it won’t expose any secrets, but it will tackle “foreign
interference” myth. This article is brought to you by a privacy-oriented peer-
to-peer marketplace_[ **
_LocalCryptos_**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra) _, so you can read
the content for free without Medium’s paywall or Google ads. I also own BTC,
ETH, BCH, and many other coins._

> Unjust laws exist;
>
> shall we be content to obey them, or shall we endeavor to amend them, and
> obey them until we have succeeded,
>
> or shall we transgress them at once?
>
> © Henry David Thoreau

# Intro

Many of us joined the crypto community because we were overwhelmed by the
amount of libertarians, cypherpunks, and hacktivists, pursuing one simple goal
— freedom. Now imagine that there is one more highly decentralized and highly
resilient community, which is also evolving in an extremely adversary
environment and pursuing the same goal — freedom. Would you be excited to
learn more about this community and study its governance model?

Recent leaderless protests in Hong Kong are an amazing example of
decentralized governance coupled together with the use of cutting edge
privacy- and security-oriented technologies. This unique experience is
extremely valuable beyond HK protests and should be studied by scholars and
shared with activists, journalists, crypto enthusiasts and cypherpunks across
the world.

The purpose of this article is to raise awareness about HK protests in the
crypto space, introduce some HK activists to crypto, and exchange valuable
experiences between different communities.

## Vocabulary

 **CCP** — Chinese Communist Party.

 **Mainlander** — citizen of mainland China, not Hong Kong. Sometimes referred
simply as “Chinese”, because [almost
97%](https://www.hongkongfp.com/2017/06/21/hku-poll-3-1-young-hongkongers-
identify-chinese-marking-20-year-low/) of HK youngsters identify themselves as
Hongkongers, rather than Chinese.

 **Red Media** — state-backed news companies that push pro-Beijing narrative
across the world (CCTV, CGTN, Global Times, People’s Daily, Xinhua, etc.)
Sometimes this term also includes previously independent news outlets that
were acquired by pro-CCP businessmen and slowly shifted towards pro-Beijing
position, e.g. China Times (Taiwan) or
[SCMP](https://twitter.com/KongTsungGan/status/1168052677311229953) (Hong
Kong). In August, [Twitter stopped accepting
advertising](https://twitter.com/TwitterSafety/status/1163522653136834561)
from state-controlled news media due to a [surge of
disinformation](https://twitter.com/Pinboard/status/1162711159000055808) about
Hong Kong protests.

 **Wumao / 50 cent army / 0.5** — originally, it meant state-sponsored Chinese
Internet commentators that were spreading CCP propaganda and disrupting
activists similar to [Russia’s troll army](/dfrlab/the-russians-who-exposed-
russias-trolls-72db132e3cd1), but on a [much larger
scale](https://gking.harvard.edu/50c). Nowadays, 50 cent army also includes
[飯圈女孩](/一只鹿ㄦ/飯圈女孩出征-擬人化的國家-卡通般的政治-ed6f8417b850) and young Chinese
nationalists, who often study overseas and have an access to western social
media platforms without a VPN. Additionally, [commercial bots have been
recently mobilized](/dfrlab/twitters-hong-kong-archives-chinese-commercial-
bots-at-work-f4c7ae8eea64) to [tweet about Hong
Kong](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/09/18/world/asia/hk-
twitter.html). In August, [Twitter and Facebook blocked more than 200,000
Chinese bots](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2019/aug/19/twitter-
china-hong-kong-accounts).

 _Side note: it’s important to distinguish between all mainland Chinese and
aggressive Chinese nationalists. In the last few months there has been a
growing_[ _anti-
Chinese_](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/crn4qr/im_starting_to_see_a_lot_of_antimainlander/)
_and_[ _anti-Hongkongers_](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q4wbx9hIN4E)
_sentiment, which is very similar to what we see in the ongoing India/Pakistan
conflict, or the Russia/Ukraine conflict. However, we should remember that
there are many open-minded people on both sides, who either support or at
least tolerate a pro-democracy movement in HK, so let’s be careful with
generalizations._

> The trolls and pseudo-journalists who waged a propaganda campaign against
> the United States were Russians, but so were the journalists who exposed
> them. © [DFRLab](/dfrlab/the-russians-who-exposed-russias-
> trolls-72db132e3cd1)

# Governance

In order to understand why current protests are leaderless, we have to go back
a few years ago to the [Umbrella
Revolution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2014_Hong_Kong_protests) of 2014.
That time the movement was more centralized and had leaders, but many of them
were later sentenced to [8 to 13 months
imprisonment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2014_Hong_Kong_protests#Imprisonment_of_prominent_protesters)
and were barred from running for public office for five years. Nowadays, being
a pro-democracy leader in HK is even more dangerous because high-profile
activists are not only
[arrested](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gi9pXJjosX4), but also
[assaulted](https://www.dimsumdaily.hk/jimmy-sham-and-assistant-assaulted-by-
two-armed-men-with-baseball-bat-and-knife/), and they constantly receive death
threats.

Hongkongers also learned from the recent [Catalan independence
movement](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=__mZkioPp3E), which lost its
momentum after its leader unilaterally decided to [back
down](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/oct/10/puigdemonts-speech-
provides-no-clarity-on-catalan-independence).

Current pro-democracy movement in HK is much more resilient due to high degree
of decentralization, so let’s look at how activists propose ideas, discuss
them, and turn them into real actions.

## Languages

There are three major groups: Cantonese-speaking (official language in HK),
Mandarin-speaking (official language in China) and English-speaking activists.
It’s important to mention that many English-speaking digital activists are
netizens from across the world, who decided to help Hongkongers in solidarity
or in fear of [growing Chinese
nationalism](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cv09bc/chinese_mob_defacing_spitting_and_urinating_at_a/)
abroad.

 _Side note: I guess, international_[
_netizens_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netizen) _are the closest thing to
what the Red Media calls as ‘foreign interference’, because they definitely
have more influence on the movement than the CIA. To be fare, internet
community was actively helping protesters around the globe for the long time
already, one of the earliest examples was the_[ _Egyptian Revolution of
2011_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Egyptian_Revolution_of_2011#Online_activism_and_social_media)
_. The most recent example is that Google and Mozilla_[ _have
blocked_](https://venturebeat.com/2019/08/21/google-and-mozilla-block-
kazakhstan-root-ca-certificate-from-chrome-and-firefox/) _Kazakhstan root CA
certificate from Chrome and Firefox in order to protect users from having
their online communications intercepted by the government. A state-issued
Security Certificate was enforced on people by Kazakh government after_[ _pro-
democracy protests broke out in the
country_](https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2019/06/hundreds-arrested-kazakhstan-
election-protests-190613201849137.html) _._

## Platforms

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*-ndx-3awj5QcC8gVSt3Q_w.png)

LIHKG 討論區: [a thread about massive accounts
hijacking](https://lihkg.com/thread/1459855/page/1)

Cantonese-speaking activists use a HK-based forum
[**LIHKG**](https://lihkg.com/category/1?order=hot) **** as the main command
center of the movement. This forum is very similar to Reddit, so the most
engaged posts stick to the top under “hot” filter, increasing their exposure.
When the forum is down because of huge [DDoS
attacks](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cxpq42/hong_kong_reddit_lihkg_is_down/),
LIHKGers move to [r/LIHKG](https://www.reddit.com/r/LIHKG),
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/lihkg_forum), and [Telegram
groups](https://www.reddit.com/r/LIHKG/comments/cxq261/join%E5%AE%9Atg_channel_%E5%91%80%E5%90%84%E4%BD%8D_%E9%BA%BB%E7%85%A9copy%E5%85%A7%E5%AE%B9%E5%82%B3%E9%96%8B%E5%8E%BB/),
which increases resilience due to higher degree of decentralization.

LIHKG is hosted on US-based servers and the founders (連尼住, 望遠) hide their real
identities, so it’s hard for HK police to get access to LIHKG’s database. This
is very important because during the Umbrella Movement in 2014 activists used
HKGolden forum, but its admins were pressured to reveal user’s IP to
authorities, [leading to his
arrest](https://www.todayonline.com/chinaindia/china/hk-protesters-edge-
police-crack-down-online).

LIHKG is used for proposing ideas, organizing events, discussing tactics and
strategies, doxxing police and pro-Beijing thugs, crowdfunding ad campaigns,
[conducting investigations](https://lihkg.com/thread/1533309/page/1), sharing
memes, posters, arts, videos,
[songs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H2QMdY0rGQU), and translating the
content to reach an international audience.

The content is visible to the public, but to engage a user must have an
account. Unlike Reddit, LIHKG
[requires](https://sites.google.com/a/lihkg.com/help/register) a certain type
of email addresses (e.g., provided by HK ISP or an institution of higher
education located in Hong Kong), so it’s harder for outsiders to sign up or
create fake accounts.

This is both a strong and weak side of the platform, because those email
addresses can be potentially linked to users’ identities, which poses huge
risks due to the [white terror](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gi9pXJjosX4)
in HK. Of course, email addresses are hidden from public profiles, and IPs can
be masked with VPN/Tor, but it’s still the matter of time when the police will
get a full access to the database of LIHKG users either through coercion, or a
hacker attack. [Darknet
markets](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Darknet_market#Post-
Silk_Road_to_present) are a good example of that.

LIHKG has cool features specifically for activists such as “MTR mode”, which
allows users to browse a forum without loading images or videos, which is
essential during massive events when the internet speed is very slow. Another
privacy-oriented feature (soon to be deployed) “emergency password” allows a
user to log out from the app by using the special password when the app is
launched. This is very useful in case if an activist was forced by a potential
adversary to unlock a phone and open an app. This approach has some downsides
though, for example, a detainee can be heavily
[tortured](https://twitter.com/lwcalex/status/1163667026780385280) after
typing in an emergency password.

In crypto space this issue is solved in a different way with “[25th
word](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RJzSQtGVaA0)”. For example, if a
detainee inputs a normal PIN code into his [Ledger hardware
wallet](https://bit.ly/to_ledger), then he opens an ordinary wallet without
raising any suspicion, but if he types in a special PIN, then he opens a
hidden wallet. Other features like [Stealth
Mode](https://samouraiwallet.com/stealth) in Samourai Wallet hide app icon
from a home screen and launcher, so a user has to dial a secret PIN in a phone
dialer to open the app. The [Scrambled PIN](https://samouraiwallet.com/pin)
randomizes the layout of the PIN screen on every load to protect against
keyloggers, screen recorders, and physical attacks.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*Z3fdmNuPb00rY05Wo9FD9w.png)

[pincong.rocks](https://pincong.rocks/) 品葱

Mandarin-speaking activists and Chinese dissidents use “outside the wall”
「牆外知乎」online forum [**pincong.rocks**](https://pincong.rocks/), which
functions in a similar way to LIHKG. The platform is mostly used for spreading
information and discussions between mainlanders and HKers, so some posts
contain replies in both traditional and simplified Chinese.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*ABxlTaRpmyrsX5tItM72pg.png)

[reddit.com/r/HongKong/](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/)

English-speaking activists reside at
[**r/HongKong**](https://www.reddit.com/r/hongkong) subreddit, which serves as
a bridge between Hongkongers and netizens across the world. (Not to be
confused with a recently created pro-CCP copycat clone
[r/Hong_Kong](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cw61ad/this_is_not_okay_reddit/)).

[ **r/HongKong**](https://www.reddit.com/r/hongkong) subreddit is mostly used
to spread the information and [onboard
newcomers](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cxsz4i/megathread_resources_for_antiextradition_protest/),
but sometimes international netizens propose tactics, discuss different
strategies, [give PR
suggestions](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cwjzyg/dont_drown_the_signal_in_noise_unsolicited_advice/),
[organize solidarity
rallies](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/d7ijhc/global_antitotalitarianism_rallies_from_sept_28/)
across the world, [expose CCP
propaganda](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/csj4ca/chinas_propaganda_strategy_for_the_hong_kong/exf1y3p/),
create
[memes](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cwgfuh/made_in_china_warning/)
&
[arts](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cyix6u/beautiful_but_sad_illustration_by_artist_desmond/),
share ideas how to [bypass censorship
filters](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cw6j15/most_propaganda_has_word_filters_to_bypass_them/),
explain how to [support HKers from
abroad](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cv0ws4/how_can_you_help_hong_kong_protests_from_abroad/),
and provide practical suggestions for the frontline (e.g. [first aid on
cyanide
poisoning](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cv2p6p/first_aid_on_cyanide_poisoning/)
due to [high level of hydrogen
cyanide](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cuuu15/alarmingly_high_level_of_hydrogen_cyanide/)
from [expired tear gas
canisters](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cpgnfd/812_hong_kong_police_admitted_using_expired_tear/)
still [used by the HK
police](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cuxvke/from_my_friend_in_hong_kong_police_are_said_to_be/)).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/768/1*EpsZUL8YbcO-j2j7NV06Qg.jpeg)

In late August, [**r/HongKong**](https://www.reddit.com/r/hongkong) was
[trending](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/csh8ft/rhongkong_is_the_3rd_top_growing_communities/)
for a few consecutive days in, but then suddenly
[disappeared](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cvp420/just_checked_yep_rhongkong_has_been_removed_from/)
from the [1,000 top growing communities
list](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cv64dl/rhongkong_taken_off_the_top_growing_communities/),
which spiked debates whether it was connected to $150 million investment from
Chinese Tencent. Later there were more accusations of a [hidden
censorship](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cw0jht/reddit_recently_accepted_an_150_million/)
imposed by Reddit admins on r/HongKong, but it might also be explained by a
coincidence or a [poorly coded algorithm](https://imgur.com/a/fpmaMw2),
because r/HongKong eventually [reappeared in trending
list](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cz6hro/reddit_is_watching_rhongkong_on_the_front_page/)
in September.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*EZklcrh3F4J-dsSE_veZ3w.jpeg)

Source: [subredditstats](https://subredditstats.com/r/HongKong)

In August, there was a surge of pictures about Hong Kong and China on r/pics,
and many of them got [millions of
views](https://www.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/cvhffz/standing_against_tyranny/),
but then all China/Hong Kong images were [“censored” out from r/pics feed into
one
megathread](https://www.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/cw62qn/hong_kongchina_megathread/),
so many content creators started posting these images in r/HongKong. That
attracted new subscribers and made content more entertaining, but it also
flooded the subreddit with memes, so some important posts [got lost in the
noise](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cwjzyg/dont_drown_the_signal_in_noise_unsolicited_advice/).

Reddit has been [heavily targeted by Chinese
bots](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cq3aid/the_chinese_bots_have_taken_over_the_subreddit/),
as well as all other social media platforms.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*4BQk6SgGS4-pBGzc3CZmng.png)

[github.com](https://github.com/hongkonggong/beyond-lennon-walls)

There is literally a [**github page**](https://github.com/hongkonggong/beyond-
lennon-walls), where you can create issues and submit pull requests with
suggestions and recommendations. There is not much discussion going on there,
but it’s a good example that literally anybody can participate and influence
the movement.

 _Here is a quick ad from a reliable long-term sponsor, so I can continue
publishing articles without any paywall._

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*argGxGMtWZaVnWWXiyOe2g.jpeg)

Are you concerned about the Fed pouring trillions of dollars into a sinking
economy? Do you want to get some cryptos in order to diversify your portfolio
and hedge against your local fiat currency collapse?

This article is brought to you by a privacy-oriented peer-to-peer self-
custodial end-to-end encrypted marketplace
[**LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra), where you can buy &
sell cryptocurrencies for fiat money. To start trading, create a new password-
protected account or log in with your [**favorite
wallet**](https://blog.localcryptos.com/localethereum-integrates-with-
wallets/?ref=eimahra) such as Ledger, MetaMask, or mobile apps like imToken.

[ **LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra) is an industry
leader in peer-to-peer non-custodial trading and a long-term sponsor of
[CryptoPunks](https://medium.com/crypto-punks) blog.

## Organizing events

The decision-making process in HK protests is the opposite of what we’ve seen
in the most other centralized protests movements. For example, events can be
proposed by some organizations such as
[CHRF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civil_Human_Rights_Front) and
[Demosistō](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demosist%C5%8D), or purely by
netizens. The process of organizing events is often very similar to
[improvement
proposals](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Bitcoin_Improvement_Proposals) in crypto
space:

  * It normally starts with the discussion in Telegram groups or during real life brainstorming meetings (similar to Bitcoin/Ethereum mailing lists).
  * Then activists create a post on LIHKG (similar to BIP or EIP in crypto).
  * If the proposal gets enough community support, people start discussing the details such as date, time, agenda, purpose, route, dress-code, gear, etc.
  * Then somebody combines all the info together, attaches some posters and creates a post with a final information.
  * After that artists create lots of call-to-action arts and posters with the info about the event.
  * Eventually, people start spreading the message on social media, distribute leaflets on the streets and stick posters on the walls across the city.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*b7mbeVXDuXwxmnB-V8PW2Q.png)

## Proposals

Literally anybody can submit a proposal for an event, suggest some tactics,
start a crowdfunding campaign, and share tips from their fields of expertise.
Since August, when HK protests hit the mainstream media, we’ve seen a surge of
netizen’s activity on reddit with lots of great ideas entering the space. The
beauty of reddit, is that it allows a pseudonymous interaction without any
link to a real identity (R.I.P. [Aaron
Swartz](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9vz06QO3UkQ)), so if people are afraid
to use regular accounts, they simply create one-time ‘throwaway’ accounts to
share their ideas. It’s fair to mention that [CCP bought a share in
reddit](https://old.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/aohpmo/given_that_reddit_just_took_a_150_million/)
and there was recently a scandal with [censoring a photo from Tienanmen Square
massacre](https://reclaimthenet.org/reddit-tiananmen-censorship-reversal/), so
the usage of VPN and privacy-oriented email services is highly recommended.

[ _From r/HongKong
mods_](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cwdsfv/a_note_from_the_mods/)
_:_

> There is a spam filter and an automod in place in our subreddit to filter
> out spammers and trolls. There is a minimum account age and karma
> requirement to post/comment in our sub. If your don’t see your post in new,
> please use the ‘message the mod’ function and link to it, we will look into
> it.

OK, but what if a proposal didn’t get enough support? Well, if BIP/EIP didn’t
get the public support in the crypto space, then it will not be implement. The
same is happening in the HK protests movement. If a certain event didn’t get
enough public support, then activists will just cancel it. Sometimes the date
and time of the protest is announced prior to the event, but the actual action
will be discussed by protesters right on the spot, depending on how many
people will attend the event.

In the [next article](/crypto-punks/digital-resistance-security-privacy-tips-
from-hong-kong-protesters-37ff9ef73129) we will discuss in details how
protesters communicate on the ground using Telegram, FireChat, AirDrop, and
Walkie-talkie.

[

## Digital resistance: security & privacy tips from Hong Kong protesters

### Full digital gear: Telegram, Protonmail, AirDrop, FireChat, PrivateBin,
Fingertrapp, What3Words, Tor, VPN, prepaid…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/digital-resistance-security-privacy-tips-from-hong-kong-
protesters-37ff9ef73129)

## Evolution of protest

[History crash course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yGTZkKAYsZw): Hong Kong
used to be a British colony for 150 years, but due to the [pressure from
China](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=092pV3OvDwA) it never gained
independence as [other British
colonies](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Territorial_evolution_of_the_British_Empire)
did after the Second World War. Instead, Hong Kong was ruled by Britain till
1997 and then was handed back to communist China with a completely different
legal and political system. In order to save an important role of HK in
China’s growing economy, HK was granted with a status of Special
Administrative Region under ‘1 country, 2 systems’ principle for 50 years till
2047. That turned out to be very useful for CCP because [China was isolated
internationally](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tiananmen_Square_protests_of_1989#Economic_impact)
after the Tienanmen Square massacre, so HK acted as a bridge. HKers were
promised with genuine universal suffrage, but it was never delivered, which
angered the populace. Here is a
[recap](https://www.vox.com/world/2019/8/22/20804294/hong-kong-
protests-9-questions) of HK protests from June to August.

 _Fun fact: in 1980s Britain tried to renew a 99-year lease for a part of HK
called New Territories, but Beijing rejected an offer and threatened to cut
off the water supply and deploy PLA, so_[ _Britain was
pressured_](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=092pV3OvDwA) _to handover not only
New Territories, but the whole Hong Kong, including Kowloon and HK island.
There are still many debates whether it was ethical to handover millions of
people with western values to communist China._

There was an [interesting study](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YJSehRlU34w)
that analyzed hundreds of major protests over the 20th century for the
overthrow of the government or territorial liberation. According to the
results, all campaigns achieved significant changes after protesters have
gained the active participation of just **3.5%** of the population. And lots
of them succeeded with far fewer than that. In Hong Kong there were multiple
protests with more than 1 million participants, and the biggest peaceful march
on [June 16](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_early_2019_Hong_Kong_anti-
extradition_bill_protests#16_June_march) gathered almost 2 million people,
which is astonishing 27% of Hong Kong population. Critics say that the real
number of participants might be less, but even if we assume 1 million people,
it’s still 13.5% of the population.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/800/1*FJ0AH2mqWhke94RGgoNAyA.jpeg)

With such a huge public support and unity Hongkongers should have achieved
some significant political changes, right? Well, after three months of
protests, Chief Executive of HK finally announced that she will [propose
withdrawing](https://twitter.com/BaldingsWorld/status/1169268571194544133) of
the controversial extradition bill in October when the legislature reconvenes,
but [none of other demands has been
met](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cziwwl/if_youve_come_to_congratulate_us_dont_our/).

Beijing keeps repeating that HK protests are purely ‘internal affairs’, but as
we can see, Hongkongers absolutely cannot succeed without a help of
international community. Protesters in other countries usually have an option
to either overthrow their government, or achieve a significant political
change, but in HK it’s not an option, because HK government is controlled by
the central government in Beijing. _Side note: it took Ukrainians 3 months to
overthrow their government during_[
_Euromaidan_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euromaidan) _in 2014._

Red Media constantly blame ‘foreign interference’ for massive protests in HK,
claiming that Hongkongers are unable to organize such a movement by
themselves, so many Chinese, even in crypto space, believe so.

Surprisingly, even some independent journalists buy this story, calling
protesters ‘US-backed rioters’.

 _Side note: here are reddit posts (_[
_one_](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cqlfq2/plot_twist_on_august_13th_hong_kong_international/)
_,_[
_two_](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cqw1ww/plot_twist_thickens_august_13th_hong_kong/)
_) with a context of that detention, which most protesters didn’t support, but
rather tried to stop it, and publicly apologized the next day._

Don’t get me wrong, American corporate media is biased, and the CIA
([NED](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TrZvlhizKb0)) is definitely
[meddling](https://bitbucket.org/TheCrypticMan/hong-kong-
protests/wiki/2019%20attempted%20'Black%20Revolution'#markdown-header-foreign-
meddling-and-involvement-in-the-protests) as they [always do](/crypto-
punks/how-to-onboard-your-folks-to-crypto-1-from-gold-to-petroyuan-de-
dollarization-a3dc29201210), but 2 million protesters on June 16 and 1.7
million protesters 2 months later on August 18 clearly showed us that pro-
democracy movement in Hong Kong has a huge public support, and it’s very
different from US-backed regime-change attempts in other countries like
Venezuela.

To debunk the ‘foreign interference’ myth even further let’s look at a few
examples of how this highly decentralized movement naturally evolved due to
constant pressure, and how protesters managed to reach such a huge
international exposure, much more than recent anti-government protests in
[France](https://edition.cnn.com/2019/07/14/europe/france-bastille-day-
injured-yellow-vests-intl/index.html),
[Algeria](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5FLGXhAZphs),
[Sudan](https://youtu.be/dR56qxM4kHA),
[Indonesia](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=78u9uBJBqIw&list=PLzGHKb8i9vTxciIoRUx04zx56EWPUZa0T),
[Kazakhstan](https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2019/06/hundreds-arrested-
kazakhstan-election-protests-190613201849137.html),
[Georgia](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KkY6pxdUtfE),
[Russia](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=COKgBe5Pw3Q), [West
Papua](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W1Kn-BzmHMs), [Puerto
Rico](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/19/us/puerto-rico-news-protests.html),
and [Kashmir](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rSE83h59reg).

## Get international attention

Hongkongers learned a lot from the Umbrella Revolution of 2014 and many other
smaller protests over the last few decades, so all logistical practices of
[collecting & bringing supplies](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dG_5gK5utgA)
and setting up medical & donation stations were already in-built and didn’t
need any additional organization from ‘foreign powers’. Interestingly, some
tactics were even brought to HK by foreign protesters a long time ago, e.g.
there were 2,000 South Korean farmers during [anti-WTO protests in
2005](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Trade_Organization_Ministerial_Conference_of_2005#Participating_parties),
who showed the importance of constructing barricades in a triangle-shape, so
police cannot simply push it down. _Side note: all South Korean men have to
serve in army._

The Umbrella Revolution of 2014 was mostly focused on occupying certain city
areas (Admiralty, Causeway Bay, and Mong Kok), so in early June 2019 activists
chose the same tactic and most protests were held on the Hong Kong island,
which is the main business and government center.

After two million people took to the streets, Hongkongers understood that the
HK government is fully controlled by CCP and will not give them any freedom
regardless of how many people demand for it, so activists started
brainstorming the strategies. The only way to survive the white terror, put
the pressure on the officials, and prevent a brutal crackdown, was to bring
more international attention and raise awareness of mainland Chinese.

To bring more international attention, Hongkongers fund-raised $0.8 million US
dollars for a huge ads campaign prior to G20 summit in Osaka. It increased
international coverage, so HKers repeated the same tactic again and again,
placing ads in different newspapers across the world.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1280/1*Hn6J82zX-foFLuTcHzCvgg.png)

Protesters also visited foreign consulates multiple times to deliver
petitions, and HK students abroad organized solidarity rallies in different
countries. One more way to bring the attention of a foreign media was [waving
foreign flags](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SCcM48Z2HEI), especially UK and
[US flags](https://twitter.com/aaronMCN/status/1170586316242702336). That
decision spiked lots of debates among protesters, but we will focus on how
activists achieve consensus in the next articles.

Finally, activists started visiting famous tourist destinations across the
world such as Mont Blanc, Mount Fuji, Horseshoe Bend, holding a flag with a
slogan “Liberate Hong Kong; Revolution of Our Times”, which was introduced by
pro-independence activist [Edward Leung Tin-
kei](https://today.line.me/id/pc/article/Liberate+Hong+Kong+revolution+of+our+times+Who+came+up+with+this+protest+chant+and+why+is+the+government+worried-95DDE3)
in 2016.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1640/1*c1F5U_kaxP0yZ9O9Oge0OA.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1440/1*A_hLoFzEzQTn0q47lG-law.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2048/1*Yv5TA_LUhE2_xGsTS9Tf4w.jpeg)

Left: Mont Blanc (credits: 山中遊子), center: Mount Fuji, right: Horseshoe Bend

## From Occupy to Hit-and-run

Penetrating the Great Firewall was a hard task, because in June 2019 CCP was
heavily censoring any mentioning of HK protests on Chinese social media
platforms, since that could poses a threat to the central government (e.g.,
environmental protests [broke out in Wuhan](https://www.bbc.com/news/blogs-
china-blog-48904350) in the end of June, but were later [suppressed with the
force](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NR2Qh1Y2JPQ)).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*gPm19b1BclgjTA8Ive4uqw.jpeg)

Image: [RebelPepperWang](https://twitter.com/RebelPepperWang) — “Quite! Don’t
wake them up…”

After countless discussions, protesters decided to focus on thousands of
mainland tourists that visit HK everyday, so those tourists can later spread
the message back in China. To do that activists proposed different tactics
such as Lennon walls, airport sit-ins, and protests in areas with high
tourists density.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1600/1*VE5mfCMgsoPzfPHm3Z1W2g.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1600/1*MAt2q97YUdg4EPnIOGrCIg.jpeg)

Images: [Lai Man Nung](https://unsplash.com/@laimannung)

As a result, many Lennon walls spawned across the city, protesters moved from
Admiralty to other locations, and netizens organized an event dedicated to
[raising awareness of mainland
Chinese](https://www.hongkongfp.com/2019/07/07/just-hong-kongs-anti-
extradition-law-protesters-march-china-express-rail-station-spread-message-
mainlanders/) in Kowloon by distributing booklets in simplified Chinese,
sharing posters via AirDrop, chanting in Mandarin, and talking to tourists
about different censored topics such as [human rights
abuses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_rights_in_the_People%27s_Republic_of_China),
[political kidnapping](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yMmHksSxpHQ), [enforced
disappearance](https://www.hongkongfp.com/2019/08/30/intl-day-disappeared-
china-must-put-halt-secret-detention-forms-enforced-disappearances/),
[widespread torture](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/jan/23/lawyer-
torture-china-secret-jails-xie-yang), [oppression of
Tibetans](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ZmN2usg3Z4), detention of one
million Uighurs in [internment
camps](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cMkHcZ5IwjU), [forced organ
harvesting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Organ_harvesting_from_Falun_Gong_practitioners_in_China),
persecution of [Falun Gong
practitioners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HBzVKtTOq3s) and [other
religious groups](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ytsu95pt_4), [crackdown on
human rights lawyers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/709_crackdown), creation
of a [surveillance state](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eViswN602_k), and
[suppression of dissidents](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UrTln_0Xw4w)
across the globe.

This strategy gave certain results, so in mid-July CCP was forced to change
the tactics by suddenly allowing and even encouraging HK-related discussions
on Chinese social media, but only if they follow the Party line, which
denounces the protesters as “violent separatists and terrorists”, who are
backed by foreign powers and lost the public support.

 _Side note: 1.7 million Hongkongers took to the streets on_[ _August
18_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_August_2019_Hong_Kong_anti-
extradition_bill_protests#18_August_rally) _despite heavy rain, showing that
community still strongly supports the pro-democracy movement even after 10
weeks of protests._

Once protesters became more mobile, netizens proposed guerilla tactics that
were previously used in other countries such as **flash mob-style** actions
without clashing with the police (this tactic proved to be effective during
[the 2018 Armenian peaceful
revolution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2018_Armenian_revolution), and was
later implemented in [Russian decentralized protests movement
Bessrochka](https://www.bessrochka.com/), but didn’t get the momentum yet). In
the end of July 2019, HK protesters have successfully adopted this **hit-and-
run** strategy that can be best described as: [occupy, disrupt, disperse,
repeat](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ihKSHT7gIBY).

After police started using tear gas, pepper spray and batons literally
everywhere, including [shopping
malls](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=45S2iU07mOU) and [metro
stations](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LEJ6ZCEc7u8), protesters moved to an
airport for sit-ins and posters distribution.

Every night at 10pm Hongkongers [shout out slogans from their
apartments](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cwcp11/oc_chills_man_chills_hong_kong_residents_shout/)
or from wherever they are [with turned on phone flash
lights](https://twitter.com/HongKongFP/status/1167641241531502597), which is
similar to an event from [Russian Digital
Resistance](/dfrlab/digitalresistance-protest-grows-in-russia-b318b1304cc7)
movement of 2018, when people were flying paper planes out of their windows at
a certain time as a protest against government’s now-failed attempt to block
Telegram app.

As we see, the movement was not organized by some centralized ‘foreign power’,
but rather [evolved
naturally](https://twitter.com/LianainFilms/status/1169539301035495425) due to
ongoing cat-and-mouse game with police, and with a help of netizens around the
world, who shared their experience via social media platforms.

## Crypto community stands with HK

For many years international business communities were afraid to discuss
China’s sensitive topics because of potential economic repercussions and cyber
bullying by the 50 cent army. On the other side, businesses and famous people
were often endorsing CCP’s domestic and foreign policy without any fear of a
backlash from the western world. Interestingly, famous people on the West
sometimes do use their influence to [support and raise
awareness](https://www.reuters.com/article/entertainment-us-usa-clooney-sudan-
arres-idUSBRE82F0VD20120316) about pro-democracy protests, e.g. [Rihanna’s
post](https://www.vibe.com/2019/06/rihanna-brings-awareness-sudan-massacre)
about the [Sudan massacre](https://youtu.be/dR56qxM4kHA), but when it comes to
the world’s superpower China, most people prefer to keep silence.

However, this trend is changing rapidly as more people start exercising their
freedom of speech everyday. [The boycott of a Disney movie
Mulan](https://twitter.com/sdnorton/status/1161971657034125312) is an
unprecedented example of a backlash caused by supporting Beijing’s position.

As for crypto community, it was interesting to see how some influencers jumped
in from the start fully supporting HK activists, which was a very bold move,
especially for an owner of [bitcoin.com](https://www.bitcoin.com/) domain
name. _Side note: even though there is a growing_[ _pro-independence
movement_](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P7JjShK1Ijc) _, most HK protesters
don’t seek any independence at this moment, but rather demand a genuine
universal suffrage within ‘1 country, 2 systems’ principle._

Other crypto influencers took safer approaches to show their support for HK
and raise awareness within the crypto community.

[Some crypto influencers](https://twitter.com/MarcHochstein) are less vocal,
but they still show support by setting up pro-HK profile pictures, which is a
regular strategy in crypto space for supporting a common cause
([#WeAreAllHodlonaut](https://twitter.com/starkness/status/1116782036168011776)).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1200/1*WqN_N5L0cO9EfERRHngQCA.jpeg)

 _Side note: Pepe the Frog is a_[ _pro-democracy freedom
fighter_](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/19/world/asia/hong-kong-protest-
pepe-frog.html) _in Hong Kong and it’s not associated with America’s alt-
right. Journalists are often being_[
_attacked_](https://twitter.com/HongKongFP/status/1170720629214994433) _by HK
police_[ _since June 12_](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iTIqDFPjypU) _._

However, it’s worth mentioning that independent donation-based news outlet
[Hong Kong Free Press](https://twitter.com/HongKongFP) recently had problems
with receiving donations held by BitPay. Hopefully, the issue will be resolved
ASAP and it’s not politically-motivated as when Coinbase
[suspended](https://cointelegraph.com/news/wikileaks-shop-reports-suspension-
of-coinbase-account-due-to-terms-of-service-violation) an account of WikiLeaks
shop without any notice or explanation.

## Conclusion

> The Chinese government thinks that it is teaching Hong Kongers and the rest
> of the world a lesson. Only we can prove the opposite to be true: that it is
> actually Hong Kongers teaching the world right now, showing us how the
> future is already here and how to face that future head-on, hand in hand. ©
> [HKFP](https://www.hongkongfp.com/2019/09/03/everyone-care-happening-hong-
> kong-despite-worlds-troubles/)

How things end with Hong Kong will set the precedent not only for Taiwan and
the Philippines, but far beyond that. There are different attempts in crypto
community to start a libertarian country with a highly decentralized
governance model. However, this country won’t have a regular army, at least in
the nearest future, so how can people protect their freedoms if big aggressive
governments will decide to interfere?

Civil disobedience, peaceful protests, digital resistance, and global
solidarity seems like a good non-violent way to protect freedoms, so Hong Kong
is a great example of a battle between people and an authoritarian state. If
Hongkongers survive this battle, then their experience will be used as a
guidebook how to protect civil rights. Their success will also inspire other
communities across the world to demand more freedoms the same as the
[Ukraine’s fight for
freedom](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Winter_on_Fire:_Ukraine%27s_Fight_for_Freedom)
inspired Hongkongers.

In the next articles we will look at how Hong Kong activists solve disputes,
achieve consensus, and what are the centralization risks of the movement. We
will also talk about digital resistance, coordination on the ground, and the
use of security- and privacy-oriented technologies.

Now, when somebody says that protests are organized by ‘foreign powers’, you
can always refer them to this article, which explains in details the
decentralized nature of the movement.

If you want to see more candid articles about Hong Kong and crypto, please
**share this article** ,
[**retweet**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software/status/1171705336446824448),
[**donate crypto**](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-
activism#donate), or simply sign up at
[**LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra) with this referral
link.

 _Disclaimer: I am not a licensed financial advisor, and this article is not a
financial advice. The information presented here is for educational purpose
only, it represents my personal opinion, and is not purported to be fact.
Cryptocurrencies are very volatile and can move quickly in any direction. I’m
not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or
alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any
content, goods, services or companies mentioned in this article. Seek a duly
licensed professional for an investment advice._

[Read this article](/crypto-punks/how-to-onboard-your-folks-to-crypto-1-from-
gold-to-petroyuan-de-dollarization-a3dc29201210) to learn how the modern
financial system evolved from commodity money to absolutely unbacked fiat
money, how the US dollar became the world’s dominant currency due to the
petrodollar warfare, how the aggressive US foreign policy accelerates the de-
dollarization process, how many countries (China, Russia, Iran, Venezuela,
etc.) lean towards cryptocurrencies in order to bypass US economic sanctions,
and how China expands its empire via Belt and Road initiative, challenging the
US dollar’s domination with petroyuan.

[

## How to onboard your folks to crypto #1: from gold to petroyuan & de-
dollarization

### History of money is a very sensitive and controversial story that shows us
the dark side of human nature through…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/how-to-onboard-folks-to-crypto-1-from-gold-to-
petroyuan-a3dc29201210)

If you’re an activist, then check out an open source project [**decentralized-
activism**](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-activism), which
shares the best practices from different decentralized movements across the
globe.

[

## SamAI-Software/decentralized-activism

### The purpose of this project is to raise global solidarity, unite people,
and exchange valuable knowledge and experience…

github.com

](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-activism)

  * Help inform people about Honk Kong by clapping 50 times 👏 Try it out!
  * I only write quality content about cryptocurrencies, blockchain, and Hong Kong. Follow me on [**medium**](/@SamAI_Software), [**twitter**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software), or [**mastodon**](https://mastodon.technology/@samai), and you won’t regret that.
  * Send me a direct message on [**twitter**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software) **** or [**linkedin**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/samaisoftware) if you want me to help improve your project, white paper, website, or sponsor my next articles.
  * Use the most secure, private and intuitive way to swap cryptos with others for your local currency — [**LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra).

 _Thanks to_[ _Mattias Nystrom_](https://twitter.com/mat77ias) _for a review._

\--

2

\--

\--

2

## [More from Crypto Punks](/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
519ab2861793--------------------------------)

Crypto revolution has begun

[Read more from Crypto Punks](/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
519ab2861793--------------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----519ab2861793--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
519ab2861793--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
519ab2861793--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
519ab2861793--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
519ab2861793--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----519ab2861793--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----519ab2861793--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcrypto-
punks%2Fdecentralized-governance-inside-hong-kongs-open-source-revolution-
lihkg-reddit-pincong-519ab2861793&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Sam
Aiken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/0*KLR9G_nzD3rK1p1w.jpg)](/@SamAI_Software)

[

## Sam Aiken

](/@SamAI_Software)

1.2K Followers

We are one big community

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F3cf7356baaf9&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcrypto-
punks%2Fdecentralized-governance-inside-hong-kongs-open-source-revolution-
lihkg-reddit-
pincong-519ab2861793&newsletterV3=39881a7541cc&newsletterV3Id=3cf7356baaf9&user=Sam+Aiken&userId=39881a7541cc&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Oliensnft](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*jZpprFZJPaKrmWFgxbX5xg.jpeg)](/@oliensnft?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------fba2fe1b_152c_41cc_9d54_a66d2a8923f1-------)

[Oliensnft

](/@oliensnft?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
fba2fe1b_152c_41cc_9d54_a66d2a8923f1-------)

## Oliens Are Coming!!!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*IOX2euKCwVwje7BbKRu0Hw.jpeg)](/@oliensnft/oliens-
are-coming-30be40c48941?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
fba2fe1b_152c_41cc_9d54_a66d2a8923f1-------)

[[![Dylan
Seto](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*dx4nzLEO5dDhT9Hu)](/@dylanseto?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------fba2fe1b_152c_41cc_9d54_a66d2a8923f1-------)

[Dylan Seto

](/@dylanseto?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
fba2fe1b_152c_41cc_9d54_a66d2a8923f1-------)

## The Trust Problem In The Digital Age: A defense of the Cryptocurrency
Industry

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*v1JW1DipFIYVqvFK.png)](/@dylanseto/the-
trust-problem-in-the-digital-age-a-defense-of-the-cryptocurrency-
industry-3be2afa4430e?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
fba2fe1b_152c_41cc_9d54_a66d2a8923f1-------)

[[![SaurabhVerma](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*PgSDDTQLlYXJipKD)](/@saurabhverma9542?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------fba2fe1b_152c_41cc_9d54_a66d2a8923f1-------)

[SaurabhVerma

](/@saurabhverma9542?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
fba2fe1b_152c_41cc_9d54_a66d2a8923f1-------)

## Unmarshal|Most Recent Partnerships|Features|$MARSH|

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*21e4XDjT6ut3EMok.png)](/@saurabhverma9542/unmarshal-
major-partnerships-features-marsh-e31f9d8a7c11?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------fba2fe1b_152c_41cc_9d54_a66d2a8923f1-------)

[[![Trofi
Group](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Xw2HQlGyxqmJae2HSO0Wfw.png)](/@trofi?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------fba2fe1b_152c_41cc_9d54_a66d2a8923f1-------)

[Trofi Group

](/@trofi?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
fba2fe1b_152c_41cc_9d54_a66d2a8923f1-------)

## Scam Alert: Watch out for phishing websites

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*siUZaAyFb-_5CEQfjHXaog.jpeg)](/@trofi/scam-
alert-watch-out-for-phishing-websites-de551b316fa?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------fba2fe1b_152c_41cc_9d54_a66d2a8923f1-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

