[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/ff3f2a3d7a2a&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![DeFi Alliance](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*zCCZs3QWXcbO-
sybtBHA-w.png)](https://medium.com/defi-alliance?source=post_page-----
ff3f2a3d7a2a--------------------------------)

Published in

[DeFi Alliance

](https://medium.com/defi-alliance?source=post_page-----
ff3f2a3d7a2a--------------------------------)

[![Imran Khan](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*xK-
XtEsaou82W6q_Mp1tJw.jpeg)](/@lmrankhan?source=post_page-----
ff3f2a3d7a2a--------------------------------)

[Imran Khan](/@lmrankhan?source=post_page-----
ff3f2a3d7a2a--------------------------------)

Follow

Aug 4, 2020

·

4 min read

# DeFi Alliance: Launches Accelerate DeFi an Accelerator

 **The**[ **DeFi Alliance**](https://chicagodefi.org/) **(DA) has launched an
accelerator program dubbed Accelerate DeFi.**

The accelerator is led by Jump Capital, Cumberland (a DRW company), CMT
Digital, Volt Capital, Imran Khan and Qiao Wang, with mentors from Framework
Ventures, Three Arrows, ParaFi, Gauntlet, and many others.

The program will start on August 24th and will run virtually for 8 weeks.
Applications are now open and can be completed
[here](https://chicagodefialliance.typeform.com/to/NBtPt6).

# Background Story

The term “Decentralized Financial”, or DeFi, was created and popularized by
the Ethereum community. It may seem like a niche, but building an open
financial system through decentralization has always been one of the primary
goals of crypto since Day 1.

Satoshi created the world’s first public, permissionless, borderless, neutral,
and censorship-resistant digital money. Nearly a decade later advanced
financial products flourished on a highly programmable crypto network.

The CDA was born to help accelerate the growth of this new financial ecosystem
and to bring it to users globally.

# Accelerate DeFi Details

Accelerate DeFi is an eight-week, intensive program designed to give DeFi
projects the resources to build, deploy, and grow their platforms.

We connect founders to some of the largest traditional trading firms in the
world and help them build product, growth, and regulatory strategies.

We offer two tracks, the fast-track program, and the early-stage program:

  *  **The fast track program** will cater to founders that are optimizing for growth with an already successful product. This program will focus on matchmaking founders with trading firms and building user growth strategies.
  *  **The early-stage program** is designed for founders entering the growth phase of their start-up. It is an eight-week program that will dive into trading, liquidity provisioning, user acquisition and retention, regulation, and token economics. The program will also connect founders to industry leaders such as trading firms, VC firms, law firms, and successful DeFi founders.

Additionally, we provide capital to founders that need it. The vehicle is
initially funded by Jump Capital, Cumberland (a DRW Company), CMT Digital, and
Volt Capital, and is open to other members of the Defi Alliance.

# Ecosystem Partners

We are excited to launch an Ecosystem Partner program. This program will
onboard successful founders to participate alongside the founding members
(Jump Trading, Cumberland (a DRW company), CMT Digital, Volt Capital and
partners (Imran and Qiao) in all aspects of running Accelerate DeFi. This
includes interviewing, selecting, funding, and mentoring DeFi projects.

We welcome our four ecosystem partners to our program:

  * Kain Warwick of Synthetix
  * Stani Kulechov of Aave
  * Loi Luu and Ming Ng of Kyber
  * Robert Leshner and Calvin Liu of Compound

# New Alliance Members

We also are excited to announce new alliance members Alameda Research, FTX,
Electric Capital, Dragonfly Capital, IOSG, FalconX, Hashed, and Delphi
Digital. These companies will join the Alliance’s efforts to educate the
global audience on DeFi and support the development of new technologies to
advance the ecosystem.

If you are looking to become a member of the alliance please apply
[here](https://chicagodefialliance.typeform.com/to/QvI3ik).

# Past Cohort

 **The first cohort of the accelerator program graduated in July. Here’s the
Cohort #1 by the numbers:**

  * 7 projects: 0x, Dydx, IDEX, Kyber Network, Synthetix, Opyn, and Token Sets
  * 20 trading firms actively engaged with Cohort #1
  * 9 trading firms are providing liquidity to Cohort #1
  * 70 CDA members (and growing daily) that are actively collaborating and sharing insights, including DeFi startups, trading firms, and service providers in the legal, tax, accounting, and audit areas

“The Chicago DeFi Alliance experience provided a wealth of context around how
market-making firms think and direct connections to some of the most active
trading firms in crypto. This experience has helped us create a liquidity
provider outbound strategy and shaped our product roadmap to include trading
firm integrations.” — Felix Feng of Token Sets

“CDA has been incredibly helpful for Kyber in terms of understanding and
connecting with top market makers in Chicago and beyond. We have set up
collaborations with a number of market makers, and look forward to keeping in
touch with the alliance. in addition, Imran and the CDA team have been going
far and beyond in terms of coordinating all the parties involved, and we
cannot be more impressed with their enthusiasm and purpose.” — Ming Ng and Loi
Luu of Kyber Network

“The DeFi Alliance provided us a unique opportunity to connect with
traditional trading firms and understand their needs and pain points. This is
invaluable feedback as we build out the protocol. We’re excited to continue to
be a part of the DeFi Alliance and expand DeFi adoption.” — Alexis Gauba of
Opyn

“We were honored to participate in the inaugural batch of the Chicago DeFi
Alliance. Imran and team have done an impressive job assembling some of the
largest and most influential trading firms, investors, and other crypto
industry participants. Getting access to these firms through both the weekly
group sessions and 1–1 breakouts gave us an opportunity to better understand
the needs of our future customers. We’ve gained invaluable contacts that will
undoubtedly help us accelerate the growth of our business.” — Alex Wearn of
IDEX

“Working with the Chicago DeFi Alliance has been an incredible experience. It
has been an excellent venue for collaborating, ideating, and learning from
some of the best and most active firms in both trading and DeFi. We want to
thank Imran for the huge amount of effort that went into putting a program of
this quality together. 0x Labs is honored to continue our involvement going
forward!” — Amir Bandeali of 0x

\--

\--

\--

## [More from DeFi Alliance](/defi-alliance?source=post_page-----
ff3f2a3d7a2a--------------------------------)

Help startups bring DeFi to billions of users globally

[Read more from DeFi Alliance](/defi-alliance?source=post_page-----
ff3f2a3d7a2a--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![SINOVATE](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*6SCxzIGWE-
cvXEK0JGbnHg.png)](/@sinovate?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[SINOVATE

](/@sinovate?source=post_internal_links---------0----------------------------)

## WEEKLY UPDATE

![](https://miro.medium.com/freeze/focal/112/112/50/50/1*6MXeKsyjfpj1ifEMsOyMyQ.gif)](/@sinovate/weekly-
update-b0676ec83034?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Oneminute
review](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*EcqUGCdk0HVFEVZC)](/@reviewoneminute?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Oneminute review

](/@reviewoneminute?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Investment In Cryptocurrency | Plan For FUTURE

](/@reviewoneminute/investment-in-cryptocurrency-plan-for-
future-8d9f637d83ef?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Cryptogeek.info](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*tUx3xOu9MCVcVgouSY6ScQ.png)](/@cryptogeek.info?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Cryptogeek.info

](/@cryptogeek.info?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## How to define that a crypto project is doomed to collapse?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*UwH3nGy1IoPuH9gq.jpeg)](/@cryptogeek.info/how-
to-define-that-a-crypto-project-is-doomed-to-
collapse-23602b2b8c6f?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![SmartLaunch](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*nPZgcZXTxjcWs5t2vb8PQg.png)](/@SmartLaunch?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[SmartLaunch

](/@SmartLaunch?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## WHAT COIN WILL REPLACE BITCOIN IN THE NEXT FEW YEARS?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*LDKs-2T1Q1z3F220veMSuw.png)](/@SmartLaunch/what-
coin-will-replace-bitcoin-in-the-next-few-
years-7327dfd7cc4c?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Moni
👾](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*6xXdZiB7RgmbuxO12QTXHA.png)](/@getmoniio?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Moni 👾

](/@getmoniio?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

in

[The Capital

](https://medium.com/the-capital?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Uniswap: What is it?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*dowE1-0DMkTCiZ2BELzLVQ.jpeg)](/the-
capital/uniswap-what-is-it-e951b200b3e6?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Eite Khatun](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*rTcQ-
bfF7gG_ItD_)](/@eitekhatun244?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[Eite Khatun

](/@eitekhatun244?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## crypto trading bot

](/@eitekhatun244/crypto-trading-bot-b8605fe0af82?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[[![ecat.media](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*Y6davLFaUrrjUruGVikB1A.jpeg)](/@ecat.media?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[ecat.media

](/@ecat.media?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## An Introduction to ecat

![ecat](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*UMTHVWEN3-jhs5qRKkTouw.jpeg)](/@ecat.media/an-
introduction-to-ecat-68a392b0e8d7?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Nezha.fi](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*oWfzK85tJKrhPYU3FNNpAw.png)](/@nezha.fi?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Nezha.fi

](/@nezha.fi?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

## Nezha — Where Prediction Markets Meet Yield Farming

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*11TkpClzR1VSeZZcWSDJfQ.png)](/@nezha.fi/nezha-
where-prediction-markets-meet-yield-
farming-1edd577e5cc9?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----ff3f2a3d7a2a--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
ff3f2a3d7a2a--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
ff3f2a3d7a2a--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
ff3f2a3d7a2a--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
ff3f2a3d7a2a--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----ff3f2a3d7a2a--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----ff3f2a3d7a2a--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdefi-
alliance%2Fdefi-alliance-launches-accelerate-defi-an-accelerator-
ff3f2a3d7a2a&source=post_page--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Imran Khan](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*xK-
XtEsaou82W6q_Mp1tJw.jpeg)](/@lmrankhan)

[

## Imran Khan

](/@lmrankhan)

527 Followers

Partner @ [volt.capital](http://volt.capital) | Alum @NorthwesternU | ex —
Growth @Microsoft @Comcast

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fusers%2F59559986d690%2Flazily-enable-
writer-
subscription&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdefi-
alliance%2Fdefi-alliance-launches-accelerate-defi-an-accelerator-
ff3f2a3d7a2a&user=Imran+Khan&userId=59559986d690&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![CryptoHawk
AI](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*sOfwCmea6hIcDz_YWQoA7A.jpeg)](/@cryptohawkai?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------b8bc19dc_9499_48d7_8beb_041afc0cfaca-------)

[CryptoHawk AI

](/@cryptohawkai?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
b8bc19dc_9499_48d7_8beb_041afc0cfaca-------)

## The Ethereum Market Snapshot & Macro Overview (2022)

![The Ethereum Market
Snapshot](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*D9U3O3K46bgmiIHAS0BJKg.jpeg)](/@cryptohawkai/ethereum-
market-snapshot-macro-overview-2022-321164f1955b?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------b8bc19dc_9499_48d7_8beb_041afc0cfaca-------)

[[![AllGoodArticles](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*4GhU65du7fiAcoy7)](/@spottychannel?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------b8bc19dc_9499_48d7_8beb_041afc0cfaca-------)

[AllGoodArticles

](/@spottychannel?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
b8bc19dc_9499_48d7_8beb_041afc0cfaca-------)

## DeFi & HawkSight

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*sIn3_NgIX2w-ARLy.png)](/@spottychannel/defi-
hawksight-c7456ae5f7e6?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
b8bc19dc_9499_48d7_8beb_041afc0cfaca-------)

[[![Sid
Sanghvi](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*oMqzhXhBZyP9D7Ra102FyQ.jpeg)](/@sidsanghvi?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------b8bc19dc_9499_48d7_8beb_041afc0cfaca-------)

[Sid Sanghvi

](/@sidsanghvi?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
b8bc19dc_9499_48d7_8beb_041afc0cfaca-------)

## DeFi: A Playground of Fire?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*sXVwjQs3DB_PaIgG)](/@sidsanghvi/defi-
a-playground-of-fire-8240cdb02833?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------b8bc19dc_9499_48d7_8beb_041afc0cfaca-------)

[[![Louis
Lapat](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*f_wr9lTd9Rro38PjspqQ4A.png)](/@louis-
prospero?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
b8bc19dc_9499_48d7_8beb_041afc0cfaca-------)

[Louis Lapat

](/@louis-prospero?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
b8bc19dc_9499_48d7_8beb_041afc0cfaca-------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------b8bc19dc_9499_48d7_8beb_041afc0cfaca-------)

## Gas is Dead or Why Avalanche Can Get The Price of Anything For Almost
Nothing

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*3FD6mAJy8GCYZdC34oPeig.png)](/coinmonks/gas-
is-dead-or-why-you-can-get-the-price-of-anything-for-almost-nothing-on-
avalanche-442e7bc4aa5d?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
b8bc19dc_9499_48d7_8beb_041afc0cfaca-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

