[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# DeFi + NFTs

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

DeFi + NFTs

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Jamie-Burke-Hi-
Res-150x150.png)

September 2020

Posted by

Jamie Burke

CEO and Founder

 ...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/jamie-burke/)

### In this series I propose we are a year into 5 year long DeFi hype cycle,
likely made up of several mini-cycles, where the aggregate effect is a
quadrupling of today's combined market cap and a doubling of the 2017 $600bn
highs based on a sustained ‘mainstreaming’ of the industry.

In fact, it's not impossible we hit that in the next 24 months alone should a
few things fall into place. So now I’ve got your attention let me explain how
across three posts. **This is post (2/3)**

  1. [The Broken DeFi Hype Cycle](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-broken-defi-hypecycle/)
  2. **Retail DeFi: DeFi + NFTs**
  3. [Institutional DeFi: **NFTs, DIDs, AEAs, dPrime & ETFs**](https://outlierventures.io/research/defi-2-0-innovations-for-institutional-adoption/)

## [Download as a report ](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/09/OV-DEFI-2.0-Q3-2020.pdf)

Posted by Jamie Burke - September 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Jamie-Burke-Hi-
Res-150x150.png)

September 2020

Posted by

Jamie Burke

CEO and Founder

 ...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/jamie-burke/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

### Retail DeFi:

Firstly, for the purpose of this series I would define ‘Retail DeFi’ as both
existing consumers that already use crypto today (although primarily via CeFi)
and for speculative purposes, as well as entirely new users who without the
below innovations would have no interest in directly holding crypto as as
asset class.

As discussed in the previous article (linked above) every hype cycle is
usually a consequence of a combination of innovations coming together in a
timely way. I propose the innovations that will drive demand for Retail DeFi
are as follows:

**Innovation triggers: NFTs, via ERC-721 & ERC-1155 (Supply) + NFT
Marketplaces (Demand)**

_‘A non-fungible token (NFT), also known as a ‘nifty’, is a special type of
cryptographic token which represents something unique; non-fungible tokens are
thus not mutually interchangeable by their individual specification’_

These two standards allow for all kinds of unique programmable digital goods
of multiple token types and characteristics such as:

_social currencies, rewards, collectibles, access tokens, digital art, loyalty
points, and digital to physical goods redemption._

_But actually most things in your life today are non-fungible including your
friendships, house, car_ _only narrow use-cases like monet are fungible. So
NFT use cases are as limitless as your life today. The question is which lend
themselves most to being digitised._

**NFTs: Closing the loyalty loop & retaining users (Supply)**

If we look at the yield farming phenomenon in DeFi 1.0, such as in the various
[food protocols](https://medium.com/dapp-com/8-food-liquidity-staking-
defi-48c20d7b025e), where yield was aggressively offered but there was
simultaneously an inherent pressure to remove inefficiencies (fees), meant
without a mechanism for loyalty there is no form of platform lock in, and only
the spectre of a race to the bottom and short term ‘yield hunting’ and exit
scams.

If we think of Liquidity Mining in a marketing context it is really just a
form of subsidised user acquisition. It’s subsidised because it isn’t linked
to an actual income stream, at least not yet. You are effectively looking to
out spend the competition, which it has to be said is incredibly common in
commoditised VC backed consumer tech (like say ride hailing) in what you hope
to be a winner takes all market. But it is very difficult to maintain when the
money runs out or users can easily switch. In any startup context if you only
run this kind of aggressive user acquisition without a retention program you
get high churn.

And users switching (in this case liquidity leakage) to chase the next
profitable opportunity is exactly what we saw in DeFi 1.0, with hundreds of
millions worth of locked value being poured into protocols like Yam, Sushi,
but then just as quickly withdrawn to put into the next protocol at the same
speed when the inevitably limited amount of liquidity mining subsidies run out
or drop in value.

However, NFTs because of their unique nature can serve as rewards with pre-set
rules based on loyal behaviour. They can also in principle go up in value, be
freely traded and bring yield through a royalties like feature. In effect, you
can think of them as a powerful CRM toolkit to lock users in and break
negative patterns.

And we have already begun to see them being put to use in DeFi in experiments
such as Aave NFT mining. Where users now not only earn yield but also NFTs
([Aavegotchis](https://aavegotchi.com/)) that increase in value based on the
degree of active participation and loyalty in a novel game closely aligned to
the Aave lending market economics. Because the whole industry can openly track
this mechanism's success, replicate and tweak its code you can expect DeFi to
increasingly close the loop with innovative NFTs game theoretics and bring the
promise of sustainable growth to DeFi itself.

In addition, because these assets are unique they will presumably have much
lower liquidity than a fungible asset bringing a level of stability but also
growth as a form of collateral (as leveraged by [$WHALE](https://whale.me/the-
whitepaper/), an NFT collateral backed social currency, in this case primarily
through digital art). Therefore they can also be put to work as collateral in
DeFi borrowing markets alongside actual stable currencies themselves like
$DAI. This means good NFT collectors can actually bootstrap collections by
borrowing against their collections themselves, as well as earning NFT
Marketplace governance tokens and yield like $RARI (on the Rarible NFT
Marketplace), driving up their value and reinforcing the hype cycle.

**NFT Marketplaces: taking crypto mainstream (Demand)**

Many of the NFT use cases such as collectibles, digital art and rewards points
are also forms of digital goods people already know and understand and
therefore more acceptable to a wider section of society. Because they are
often made in visually appealing multimedia form they have the potential for
powerful memetics and can be highly viral when shared in social channels like
Twitter, Instagram or Twitch tapping into massive existing Web 2.0 user bases.

In this context, you can think of NFT marketplaces such as SuperRare, Rarible
or NiftyGateway as playing a similar function to CEXs (Centralised Exchanges
like Binance) during the ICO boom in onboarding retail users. The fact NFTs
are actually a form of ‘crypto asset’ is abstracted away almost entirely,
depending on the degree of centralisation (as in some use fiat on and off
ramps and others MetaMask only).

But in fact because NFTs are most interesting when considered ‘digital
consumables’; context driven experiences consumed in virtual environments such
as Decentraland, Cryptovoxels, or Sandbox, and it could be argued the most
valuable NFT marketplaces will be in the virtual environments they are
consumed.

This experiment might start with crypto businesses generally experimenting
with NFTs-as-CRM (as being pioneered by Linkdrop, with customers such as
Coinbase and Binance who operate in a highly commoditized space) but I believe
will quickly be adopted by the wider consumer tech world, especially in
demographics where the ‘Supreme drop culture’ is well established such as
fashion and gaming (as being pioneered by companies like Crucible.network)
creating a level of demand triggering something much much bigger than the 2017
ICO cycle.

However, there are still some significant barriers that need to be removed
before this can happen, most importantly Ethereum gas prices being
unsustainable for lower value digital items. Triggers could include:

  * ETH2 launch success / adoption
  * ETH layer 2 scaling solutions
  * ETH cross-chain interoperability (Cosmos / Polkadot)
  * ETH cross-chain interoperability with specialist NFT protocols (DApper Labs Fuse, Lukso)
  * Ethereum competitors capturing market share
  * Transaction and Gas optimization (Biconomy) / economic interoperability (Z!P)

### Portfolio in this segment:

This is not a new thesis but one that has evolved from a powerful feedback
loop with a developing portfolio of 30 startups. Below is a summary of those
projects mentioned in this article.

  * [Biconomy](https://biconomy.io/), Gas optimization & positive yield farming
  * [Crucible](https://crucible.network/), NFT identity & vault management
  * [Linkdrop](https://linkdrop.io/), NFT user acquisition & retention
  * [Boson Protocol](https://bosonprotocol.io/), dCommerce Digital to physical goods redemption
  * [ZIP](http://zip.outlierventures.io/), A cloud credit for multi-chain interchange & ledger usage costs

If you are working on something that accelerates this vision please APPLY to
our 3-month accelerator program [**BASE
CAMP**](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/) to join this wonderful and
highly synergistic portfolio.

If you are a later stage project but want to explore the power of NFTs to
gamify your platform we have a ‘12 week token fast track’ program for Base
Camp applicants who meet a readiness criteria  
---  
  
## [Download as a report ](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/09/OV-DEFI-2.0-Q3-2020.pdf)

### Next in series:

**3/3 Institutional DeFi: AI Lego, STOs & dPrime** (dropping soon)

### NFT Founder Podcast Episodes:

[**5 x leading Web 3 / NFT Founder
Episodes**](https://twitter.com/jamie247/status/1308381370796908545?s=20)

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

