[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![DeFi in the wake of
SushiSwap](/static/a06080bc3f06a1168cc95649a3d0ba7a/e4796/header.png)

[DeFi](/blog/category/de-fi/)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

## DeFi in the wake of SushiSwap

By [Robert Mitson](/blog/author/robert-mitson/)

·

October 29, 2020

In Greek mythology, it was the wonders of flight that led Icarus to fly ever-
higher, until the heat of the sun melted the wax that held his wings together.
In recent weeks, a similar tale surrounds the anonymous founder of SushiSwap,
Chef Nomi.

Less than two weeks after its launch, Chef Nomi, clearly intoxicated with the
wonders of pecuniary benefit, pulled $14m of ETH from funds that were
earmarked for developers, and sent the world of DeFi into a tailspin. In one
day, [his actions wiped 29% off of DeFi’s then-$9BN
high](https://news.bitcoin.com/defi-economy-rebounds-total-value-locked-
jumps-28-capturing-close-to-9b/), and created considerable anger among the
community.

Justifying his actions [on Twitter](https://twitter.com/nomichef), Nomi said:

_“Maybe you don’t think I deserved that ETH? I think my contributions
justified that. I wrote the migration code. I did all the audits. I
coordinated the largest LP pools ever. I created a large community. I sprung
up 100s of LP scam projects. All in one week.”_

As the value of SUSHI tokens plummeted, many accused Chef Nomi of an exit
scam, taking aim at Binance for even listing the tokens in the first place.

Just as the sun melted Icarus’ wax, the DeFi community broiled Chef Nomi, and
It didn’t take long for him to realise that he had flown too close to the sun.
Nomi returned the funds before once again taking to Twitter - this time to
voice his reproach. Markets reacted swiftly, and an almost-complete recovery
was felt within 24hrs. All’s well that ends well, right?

This crypto _telenovela_ reveals something much more interesting than the
shortcomings of Chef Nomi, which is the resilience of DeFi. It gives credence
to the steam of the DeFi train, which has been gathering considerable momentum
in the last six months - reaching a record high TVL of $11.96BN this week. It
also demonstrates the DeFi community’s ability to debug human greed from the
system as a whole.

The potential that exists in a decentralized financial system is clearly
considerable, and to let the errant ways of a sole agent disrupt the future of
the entire system would be to play into the hands of the naysayers of
decentralization.

However, the DeFi community’s reaction to Chef Nomi’s self-anointed ‘mis-step’
shows that there is little risk of this happening. Much like [Charlie
Lee](https://twitter.com/SatoshiLite) before him, and others who will
undoubtedly follow, the crypto community has a deep-seated commitment to the
tenet of incorruptibility that governs the systems and technology it creates.

Another area of interest here is the rate at which Chef Nomi took
responsibility for his actions and returned not only the funds, but balance to
the DeFi ecosystem. Can we ostensibly imagine agents of traditional finance
acting similarly, if their anonymity could be preserved? It seems unlikely.

Indeed, the speculative nature of DeFi is no different to that of traditional
finance, and therefore similar market forces are at play, but the ethics and
attitudes of the two are worlds apart. The fact that a financial system built
on mutual trust and the preservation of privacy prevails, even in the face of
scandal, is an accomplishment in and of itself.

While the absence of regulation has been integral to DeFi’s growth, events
like this demonstrate that these conditions won’t last forever. As regulators
catch up to the crypto curve, the growth of regulation is inevitable.

This is compounded by the entrance of mainstream financial institutions to the
DeFi market. JP Morgan, ANZ, and the Royal Bank of Canada are just three of
the 75 financial juggernauts who are already actively involved in crypto,
along with Grayscale, a fund with more than $5BN of crypto assets under
management. With their participation comes a level of legal grunt that will
bring changes to the crypto ecosystem as a whole.

The swell of news surrounding SushiSwap has forced the community to face some
harsh truths - and will certainly have lit up the eyes of regulators who are
looking to control the space.

A vital consideration for the future is how to preserve the innovation,
morality, and freedom of DeFi as regulation and mainstream participation
grows.

Header image from [Kevin Zyteng, available on
Unsplash.](https://unsplash.com/photos/Z5tSnuGuTTw)

[DeFi](/blog/category/de-fi/)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2020/10/29/defi-
in-the-wake-of-sushiswap)

