[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Measuring, Monitoring and Maintenance

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Deployment Phase Part 3: Measuring, Monitoring and Maintenance

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_geoff-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Geoff LeFevre

Crypto-economics Analyst

Previously as a product manager at Shortest Track, he worked at the
intersection of AI and blockchain designing token economies to support
enterprise AI initiatives. He has also advised a number of early-stage
projects on token design and ICO issuances....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1290)

# Wrapping up our series on the Deployment Phase we’ll discuss the importance
of network measurement, monitoring, and maintenance.

## By Geoff LeFevre

Posted by Geoff LeFevre - June 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_geoff-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Geoff LeFevre

Crypto-economics Analyst

Previously as a product manager at Shortest Track, he worked at the
intersection of AI and blockchain designing token economies to support
enterprise AI initiatives. He has also advised a number of early-stage
projects on token design and ICO issuances....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1290)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

## Once these models are out in the wild, the job of token design and
engineering has only just started. Token models will need to be constantly
monitored, maintained, tuned, and iterated through. A good project will feel
responsible for the network it has launched, ensuring its long term
sustainability, effectiveness and security well past the initial network
launch.

Ideally, a token model will be launched first in a test net with real users
before going to a production-ready network. This will allow for further
testing and optimization of the token model, and fine-tuning of the token-
network fit.

**Measuring, Monitoring, Maintenance**

Measuring, monitoring, and maintaining your network relies heavily on the
feedback loops created in the Design Phase. We discussed feedback loops in
more depth in [our last post](https://outlierventures.io/research/deployment-
phase-of-token-ecosystem-creation-part-1-2-testing-iteration-system-safety/),
but the sooner a token model is able to produce real metrics regarding its use
and overall network health, the sooner it is possible to de-risk the model.

Blockchains are great economic sensors, providing provenance of information
not just on the current state of the network, but its evolutionary path. A
token model’s feedback loop is a critical evolutionary component used to
reduce the complexity of the network into actionable insights to direct model
optimisation and create frictionless evolution. Due to the effectiveness of
these networks in recording and preserving details on their current state, the
question is not what can be measured, but what should be measured to determine
the true state of network health. The answer to that question should be guided
by the high-level network requirements outlined in the Discovery Phase, and
the network’s objective function defined in the Design Phase.

![Deployment Phase Part 3: Measuring, Monitoring and Maintenance Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Screenshot-2019-06-14-at-12.13.49.png)Human behavior
is extremely complex, hence data collected from these networks is
multidimensional, time-continuous, and always evolving. Moreover, different
weights will be given to different parameters at various stages of a network’s
lifecycle, and some parameters may even become irrelevant as new ones are
introduced. Accordingly, choosing the right metrics to optimize around and
when to optimize is critical.

Well-designed token models should already have key parameters identified and
all the tools in place to effectively measure and monitor their issuing
network. It is worth noting that what you should measure in these token
ecosystems will invariably change throughout the lifecycle of the network.
Different types of users rotate in and out of the network; the network utility
increases; the network forks or is acquired by other networks. Tracking this
evolution to create well-structured databases of network metrics will
increasingly become a huge priority for these networks, not just to optimize
their own token models and ensure their own long term sustainability, but to
also improve the tools used to design, build, and iterate new networks and
token models.

We propose that any network issuing a token will need to create a network
health dashboard used to measure and react to current network states.

![Deployment Phase Part 3: Measuring, Monitoring and Maintenance Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Screenshot-2019-06-14-at-12.29.05.png)A Network Health
Dashboard would be a key tool for monitoring the underlying health and
performance of the network. Any analysis of network health should track both
qualitative and quantitative aspects of on-chain and off-chain activity. In
the same way that traditional early-stage tech companies optimise their
offering around their lifetime customer value (LTV) and customer acquisition
costs (CAC) tokenised ecosystems will optimise their operations around network
health, adoption, and traction. It is still relatively early, and these are
fundamentally new business models so industry standards have not fully
crystallised, but metrics are beginning to percolate to the surface
surrounding network economics, value flows, network safety, token ownership,
developer activity, community building, corporate engagement, and other
network adoption and traction indicators.

![Deployment Phase Part 3: Measuring, Monitoring and Maintenance Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Screenshot-2019-06-14-at-12.31.12.png)

Looking beyond our process for token ecosystem creation, it is critical we
better explore how these networks evolve and how we measure their performance
to the same level of understanding we have of the other Internet business
models such as SaaS, which we now know evolve from targeted growth hacking and
freemium models to subscription-based monetization. We need comparable metrics
like conversion rates, churn, monthly recurring revenue and customer
acquisition costs to provide guidance on network growth, their financing and
ongoing health for critical decision making and stewardship.

This process can better position projects to develop the network metrics and
computational signals they need to navigate such complex systems. These serve,
not only as reliable indicators of the economic and technical health of a
network but also as ‘fundamental analysis’ for those valuing networks for over
their long-term futures.

Recently at Outlier Ventures, we’ve been working on a joint project between
our technology and crypto economics team developing a network health scoring
tool to monitor the underlying health of a network, and can't wait to share
it.

To learn more about our phased strategic process for token ecosystem creation,
download our [full report](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/10/Token-Ecosystem-Creation-Outlier-Ventures-PDF.pdf) on
Token Ecosystem Creation.

[![Deployment Phase Part 3: Measuring, Monitoring and Maintenance Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Screenshot-2019-06-10-at-11.45.58.png)](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/10/Token-Ecosystem-Creation-Outlier-Ventures-PDF.pdf)



_This article is for information purposes only and does not constitute
investment advice. This article does not amount to an invitation or inducement
to buy or sell an investment nor does it solicit any such offer or invitation
in any jurisdiction._

_In all cases, readers should conduct their own investigation and analysis of
the data in the article. All statements of opinion and/or belief contained in
this article and all views expressed and all projections, forecasts or
statements relating to expectations regarding future events represent Outlier
Ventures Operation Limited own assessment and interpretation of information
available as at the date of this article._

___No responsibility or liability is accepted by Outlier Ventures Operations
Limited or Sapia Partners LLP for reliance on the contents of this article._

_Outlier Ventures is an Appointed Representative of Sapia Partners LLP, a firm
authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)._

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

