[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Deployment Phase of Token Ecosystem Creation Part 1 & 2: Testing & Iteration
+ System Safety

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Deployment Phase of Token Ecosystem Creation Part 1 & 2: Testing & Iteration +
System Safety

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_geoff-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Geoff LeFevre

Crypto-economics Analyst

Previously as a product manager at Shortest Track, he worked at the
intersection of AI and blockchain designing token economies to support
enterprise AI initiatives. He has also advised a number of early-stage
projects on token design and ICO issuances....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1290)

# Kicking off our series on the Deployment Phase we will discuss the
importance of testing and network safety.

## By Geoff LeFevre

Posted by Geoff LeFevre - June 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_geoff-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Geoff LeFevre

Crypto-economics Analyst

Previously as a product manager at Shortest Track, he worked at the
intersection of AI and blockchain designing token economies to support
enterprise AI initiatives. He has also advised a number of early-stage
projects on token design and ICO issuances....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1290)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

## Deployment is focused on system integration and continued model
optimisation through testing and iteration. Deploying the token model is a
continuous process, involving two distinct layers of iteration, on design and
development. The deployment phase comprises of validating and stress testing
the parameters that were defined during the design phase, before fully
integrating into the network.

The deployment process involves using a combination of mathematical, computer
science and engineering principles to fully understand the interactions in our
network and its overall health. This consists of a sequential integration
phase that requires testing of each sub-system before being integrated. MVT
for our ecosystem, which was established in the design phase, will need to be
improved upon once integrated into the network. This process consists of first
validating key assumptions and iteratively testing through until all
parameters have been optimised with respect to their constraints.

![Deployment Phase of Token Ecosystem Creation Part 1 & 2: Testing & Iteration
+ System Safety Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Screenshot-2019-06-10-at-11.33.34.png)The initial
token design is still an untested hypothesis; therefore, once finalised, it
needs to be tested. Testing needs to be an integral part of any token design
to not just create the optimal design, but the optimal feedback loop that
helps govern and monitor the system.

### Case Study: Aragon Governance

Aragon’s governance process, specifically the voting system incorporated into
the Aragon Governance Proposal (AGP) process is a great example of an untested
hypothesis that the team is currently testing live. At launch, votes on AGPs
are token weighted, meaning 1 ANT = 1 vote (more specifically 10^-18 ANT = 1
vote), and voting times were fixed. Implications of voting systems is beyond
the scope of this article, but for a great breakdown of some of the
implications of this voting system check out [Evan Van Ness’s post examing the
results of AGP42](https://www.evanvanness.com/post/184616403861/aragon-vote-
shows-the-perils-of-onchain-governance) where he shows how a token whale gamed
the system and was able to cause the rejection of this proposal at the last
minute despite having the Aragon community overall voting for it. What’s
important to note here is that this voting system employed by Aragon was a
very simple one, and this was likely an intentional design choice. By
deploying a super simple design, Aragon was able to set a baseline test, learn
from this mechanism, and very likely is incorporating these learnings into
future iterations of their voting system.

The continuous and complex nature of these networks means that they will
always be in a state of evolution, and thus the token model needs to be able
to evolve in step with the needs of the network, with the help of optimal
feedback loops. Blockchains are great economic sensors, providing provenance
of information not just on the current state of the network, but its
evolutionary path. Due to the effectiveness of these networks in recording and
preserving details on their current state, the question is not what can be
measured, but what should be measured to determine the true state of network
health. The answer to that question should be guided by the high-level network
requirements outlined in the Discovery Phase, and the network’s objective
function defined in the Design Phase.

![Deployment Phase of Token Ecosystem Creation Part 1 & 2: Testing & Iteration
+ System Safety Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Screenshot-2019-06-10-at-11.34.41.png)Real-world tests
are the best tool for validating and learning from your design, but what if
the risks of a real-world test could be catastrophic for a network? Many
networks are positioned as global public utilities so testing key parameters
live could mean disaster for networks where safety is key. You wouldn’t want
to stress test a bridge after you built it.

Getting to the optimal MVT without relying on live tests requires applying
principles from systems engineering and control theory throughout the testing
and implementation phase to achieve the optimal incentive structure and
effective production-ready model. Recently
[BlockScience](https://block.science/), has announced an awesome tool they
developed in house for “[complex adaptive dynamic computer-aided
design](https://medium.com/@blocksciencelabs/introducing-complex-adaptive-
dynamics-computer-aided-design-cadcad-38b63b541eb8)”, named cadCAD. [cadCAD,is
an open-sourced python library](https://github.com/BlockScience/cadCAD-
Tutorials) designed to assist in the validation and optimisation of token
designs using simulations. It is a major contribution to the tooling in the
space and one I’m super excited about.

In much the same way the laws of physics are the primitives for classical
engineering problems, such as building skyscrapers or bridges, the economic
theories and incentives that guided the initial design are the primitives used
in token engineering. If ‘Token Design’ is the primary discipline of the
Discovery and Design Phases, then ‘[Token
Engineering](http://tokenengineering.net/)’ is the primary discipline of the
Deployment Phase.

![Deployment Phase of Token Ecosystem Creation Part 1 & 2: Testing & Iteration
+ System Safety Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Screenshot-2019-06-10-at-11.35.40.png)

The same way we iterate the design through to a production-ready model,
testing should be iterated through to a production-ready feedback loop. These
feedback loops are key in monitoring the health of the network and enable
token models to be agile and make real-time adjustments. Token models are more
sustainable if they are able to react and optimise based on little shocks in
the network, which is commonly referred to as anti-fragile. If these little
network shocks go undetected or the model simply does not adjust accordingly,
then inefficiencies will build up and the risk of a much larger, destabilising
shock increase, which risks the viability of the network. Again, the key is
designing for network safety.

![Deployment Phase of Token Ecosystem Creation Part 1 & 2: Testing & Iteration
+ System Safety Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Screenshot-2019-06-10-at-11.36.49.png)The Deployment
Phase is as much about testing and it is deploying your token design. A
primary aim for any token design should be safety, and to achieve this the
same engineering rigour put into building bridges and skyscrapers should be
applied to tokenised ecosystems. To fill this gap, the new field of ‘Token
Engineering’ has recently emerged and is already starting to build out the
tooling required for more robust designs. But this is only the beginning.

To learn more about our phased strategic process for token ecosystem creation,
download our [full report](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/10/Token-Ecosystem-Creation-Outlier-Ventures-PDF.pdf) on
Token Ecosystem Creation.

[![Deployment Phase of Token Ecosystem Creation Part 1 & 2: Testing &
Iteration + System Safety Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Screenshot-2019-06-10-at-11.38.51.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/deployment-
phase-of-token-ecosystem-creation-part-1-2-testing-iteration-system-
safety/screenshot-2019-06-10-at-11-38-51/)

[![Deployment Phase of Token Ecosystem Creation Part 1 & 2: Testing &
Iteration + System Safety Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Screenshot-2019-06-10-at-11.45.58.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/deployment-
phase-of-token-ecosystem-creation-part-1-2-testing-iteration-system-
safety/screenshot-2019-06-10-at-11-45-58/)

_This article is for information purposes only and does not constitute
investment advice. This article does not amount to an invitation or inducement
to buy or sell an investment nor does it solicit any such offer or invitation
in any jurisdiction._

_In all cases, readers should conduct their own investigation and analysis of
the data in the article. All statements of opinion and/or belief contained in
this article and all views expressed and all projections, forecasts or
statements relating to expectations regarding future events represent Outlier
Ventures Operation Limited own assessment and interpretation of information
available as at the date of this article._

___No responsibility or liability is accepted by Outlier Ventures Operations
Limited or Sapia Partners LLP for reliance on the contents of this article._

_Outlier Ventures is an Appointed Representative of Sapia Partners LLP, a firm
authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)._

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

