[Go Back](../../)[Fleek.co](https://Fleek.co)

# Deploy a Jekyll Blog to IPFS on Fleek

![](https://fleek-team-bucket.storage.fleek.co/thumbnails-blog/jekyll-social-
img.png)

Get your Jekyll blog sailing on the Web3 waters! In this short tutorial, we
will learn how to create a Jekyll blog and deploy it on Fleek so it can be
shared through IPFS.

### Generating a Jekyll Blog

Before anything, you will need to have Jekyll installed. Follow the
instructions corresponding to your operating system
[here](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/).

Once installed, we need to generate a blog, so run the command below.

    
    
    jekyll new my blog

This will create a blog called `my blog`.

Updating the Jekyll blog is very easy. In the root directory of the newly
created blog, you will find a file named `_config.yml`.

This file will allow you to modify configurations that will be used when
generating the blog. In my case, I’ve changed the title and description.

    
    
    # Welcome to Jekyll!
    #
    # This config file is meant for settings that affect your whole blog, values
    # which you are expected to set up once and rarely edit after that. If you find
    # yourself editing this file very often, consider using Jekyll's data files
    # feature for the data you need to update frequently.
    #
    # For technical reasons, this file is *NOT* reloaded automatically when you use
    # 'bundle exec jekyll serve'. If you change this file, please restart the server process.
    #
    # If you need help with YAML syntax, here are some quick references for you: 
    # https://learn-the-web.algonquindesign.ca/topics/markdown-yaml-cheat-sheet/#yaml
    # https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/yaml/
    #
    # Site settings
    # These are used to personalize your new site. If you look in the HTML files,
    # you will see them accessed via {{ site.title }}, {{ site.email }}, and so on.
    # You can create any custom variable you would like, and they will be accessible
    # in the templates via {{ site.myvariable }}.
    
    title: Fleek and Jekyll
    email: support@fleek.co
    description: >- # this means to ignore newlines until "baseurl:"
      Welcome to Web3! This blog was created with Jekyll and deployed to IPFS through Fleek!
    baseurl: "" # the subpath of your site, e.g. /blog
    url: "" # the base hostname & protocol for your site, e.g. http://example.com
    twitter_username: fleekhq
    github_username:  fleekhq
    
    # Build settings
    theme: minima
    plugins:
      - jekyll-feed
    
    # Exclude from processing.
    # The following items will not be processed, by default.
    # Any item listed under the `exclude:` key here will be automatically added to
    # the internal "default list".
    #
    # Excluded items can be processed by explicitly listing the directories or
    # their entries' file path in the `include:` list.
    #
    # exclude:
    #   - .sass-cache/
    #   - .jekyll-cache/
    #   - gemfiles/
    #   - Gemfile
    #   - Gemfile.lock
    #   - node_modules/
    #   - vendor/bundle/
    #   - vendor/cache/
    #   - vendor/gems/
    #   - vendor/ruby/

In the `_config.yml` file, you may have noticed a line with `theme: minima`.
That is because we are using the default theme. For this tutorial, we will
keep the default so we can focus on deploying the site, but you can go
[here](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#pick-up-a-theme) to learn more!

Finally, what is a blog without an awesome blog post? Go to the `_posts`
folder which is the root directory. There you will find a sample blog post.
You can make a copy of this file to use as a reference for creating new posts.
Essentially, all future new posts will be in the `_posts` folder and named in
the format `yyyy-mm-dd-title.md` just like the reference post file.

If you open the blog post file, you will notice that it is written in
markdown. [Click here](https://markdown-
guide.readthedocs.io/en/latest/basics.html) to learn more about markdown.
Markdown will make it very straightforward for you to write your content.

Here’s my sample blog post:

    
    
    ---
    layout: post
    title:  "Welcome to Web3!"
    date:   2020-04-02 15:44:16 -0400
    categories: fleek jekyll web3
    ---
    
    ## Welcome to Web3!
    
    This site was generated with Jekyll and deployed to IPFS thanks to fleek!
    
    Fleek provides everything you need to launch and maintain fast, modern websites hosted on IPFS. Welcome to the new internet.
    
    # Documentation
    
    Fleek docs:  <https://docs.fleek.co>
    
    Jekyll docs: <https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home>

Once you are ready, you can see your blog in action by running the site in
your local machine.

    
    
    bundle exec jekyll serve

Go to <http://localhost:4000> and see the result.

[ ![1
result](../../static/69feb73d84ebd34ef4f93a90bffbbe03/d9199/1-result.png)
](../../static/69feb73d84ebd34ef4f93a90bffbbe03/ccf0c/1-result.png)

Awesome! Now we are ready to deploy to IPFS!!

### Deploying to IPFS through Fleek

The first step is to push the Jekyll project to Github. That will allow Fleek
to get access to our project for the deployment.

In our case, I’ve pushed my project to this repo:
<https://github.com/SamueleA/fleek-jekyll-blog>

Now, we must log to fleek and create a new site.

[ ![2 add site](../../static/6f10fe25639ab703c85ffc979e23c453/d9199/2-add-
site.png) ](../../static/6f10fe25639ab703c85ffc979e23c453/07a9c/2-add-
site.png)

Pick the repo containing your Jekyll project.

[ ![3 pick repo](../../static/2d4e5f607d8ae156764502f8464020d7/d9199/3-pick-
repo.png) ](../../static/2d4e5f607d8ae156764502f8464020d7/f2763/3-pick-
repo.png)

Luckily for us, Fleek has automatically detected our Jekyll project and filled
the build settings with the right information. All we have to do is click on
`Deploy Site`.

[ ![4 deploy
site](../../static/352af53580e3d417b99e9608894af5f6/242e2/4-deploy-site.png)
](../../static/352af53580e3d417b99e9608894af5f6/242e2/4-deploy-site.png)

Let’s wait a bit for the site to deploy. This should take no longer than a few
minutes.

Upon deployment, Fleek will automatically assign a default URL to the site.
Here is mine: <https://sweet-forest-4329.on.fleek.co/>

[ ![5
deployed](../../static/784292e308642ce3f1abee0668052e44/d9199/5-deployed.png)
](../../static/784292e308642ce3f1abee0668052e44/9cea8/5-deployed.png)

## Congratulations!

Congrats! You’ve just joined the Web3 family by deploying a Jekyll blog to
IPFS with Fleek.

We love to see what our users come up with. Do not hesitate to share your work
with us by tweeting your deployed site!

  * [Sign up](https://app.fleek.co) to try for yourself
  * [Join](https://slack.fleek.co/) our Community Chat
  * [Follow](https://twitter.com/FleekHQ) us on Twitter
  * [Read](https://docs.fleek.co/) out our Tech Docs
  * Contact us at support@fleek.co

Published 4 Apr 2020

  * [Tutorial](../../tag/tutorial/)
  * [Resource](../../tag/resource/)

Fleek is all you need to build websites and apps on the new Open Web:
permissionless, trustless, censorship resistant, and free of centralized
gatekeepers. Welcome to the new internet.[](https://www.twitter.com/FleekHQ)

