[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Design Phase of Token Ecosystem Creation: Part 1

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Design Phase of Token Ecosystem Creation Part 1

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_geoff-150x150.jpg)

May 2019

Posted by

Geoff LeFevre

Crypto-economics Analyst

Previously as a product manager at Shortest Track, he worked at the
intersection of AI and blockchain designing token economies to support
enterprise AI initiatives. He has also advised a number of early-stage
projects on token design and ICO issuances....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1290)

# The objective is to capture network effects

## By Geoff LeFevre

Posted by Geoff LeFevre - May 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_geoff-150x150.jpg)

May 2019

Posted by

Geoff LeFevre

Crypto-economics Analyst

Previously as a product manager at Shortest Track, he worked at the
intersection of AI and blockchain designing token economies to support
enterprise AI initiatives. He has also advised a number of early-stage
projects on token design and ICO issuances....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1290)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

## Kicking off our series on the Design Phase of Token Ecosystem Creation, we
discuss setting a network’s objective function and how to best approach
setting the foundations for a token design that can effectively create and
capture network effects. Network effects are a multi-dimensional concept that
is a bit of a moving target. At its base level, networks effects describe an
osystem that becomes more valuable as more users are added to it. The term can
be applied to any number of things, from products, services, applications,
data, countries, cities, and even your group of friends. These examples should
highlight the very different types of network effects there are, and the
dynamic nature network effects can have over time.

As we saw in the Discovery Phase, these tokenised ecosystems can have multiple
layers of participants and utilities. Setting your network’s objective
function is the first step to designing a strong base for your network to
create and capture the required network effects it needs. In the same way that
Uber has now expanded into food delivery, network effects and network
utilities can be layered on top of each other.

Token design is an emerging concept that consists of building an ecosystem
surrounding the market or the business model that an entity is trying to
operate in or create via the use of blockchain technology. It is an extremely
complex task, comparable to designing and launching a completely new economic
structure. The key is to keep the design and the underlying token architecture
as simple as possible and minimize one’s assumptions about agents’ behaviours
because even very simple structures can lead to extremely complex interactions
and outcomes. Accordingly, overloading models with assumptions would not only
restrict their capability but also increase error and overall system
fragility.

The Network Objective Function is the primary objective we want the network to
optimize for above all else and helps us aggregate the different goals of a
particular network depending on their relevant importance. For example, Ocean
Protocol ’s objective function is to maximize the supply of relevant AI data
and services. Ocean’s token architects use this goal to direct all other token
design decisions. The key tool used by Ocean to incentivize behaviour around
this objective function is through the introduction of block rewards with the
properties described below.

![Design Phase of Token Ecosystem Creation Part 1 Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/TEC-1-e1558045366248.jpg)

The objective function of Ocean is to first and foremost support the network
effects of its data. Although this is the focus, other utilities and network
effects can be added and layered on top of those provided by the data itself.
One such layer is curation. This utility is directly linked to the objective
function by the amount staked (Sij) and despite having its own unique set of
network effects, is able to leverage and support the network effects of the
data on Ocean. Much like how Uber evolved to include Uber Eats, as Ocean
continues to evolve, more utilities and network effects will undoubtedly be
added and layered on top of each other.

The key to this evolution and layering of network effects is finding Token-
Network Fit. Once the requirements of network participants are determined at
the ecosystem level and subsequently at the small sub-systems level, we can
start to recursively build our token infrastructure. In other words, the
higher level design of the token will have to meet the needs of the market(s)
it is facilitating, which in turn should fit the protocol design that is
required for the network nodes to sustain the ledger in a healthy manner.

![Design Phase of Token Ecosystem Creation Part 1 Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/Screenshot-2019-05-16-at-17.51.43.png)Another
consideration of the design process is the Ledger-Market Fit. For this, it is
useful to visualize tokens operating in between two distinct but complementary
layers, namely the market and ledger layers.

![Design Phase of Token Ecosystem Creation Part 1 Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/Screenshot-2019-05-16-at-17.53.42.png)

On the one hand, the market layer is where the network participants interact
and transact (sometimes off-chain), hence, this is where we formulate and/or
incorporate the business’ model/s by taking into account network effects and
externalities. On the other hand, the ledger layer is where all the necessary
transactions and/or other relevant information are ordered and recorded. Token
models act as the interface between these two layers, limiting and
incentivizing behavior in the market layer, and acting as the sensor
funnelling data onto the ledger layer to be recorded. To design for Ledger-
Market Fit, the network architect needs to determine the needs of the market
and the business model, induce participants to reveal their preferences and/or
hidden information truthfully in that market, and create the correct
incentives in recording in and sustaining the ledger itself. This requires
understanding the constraints and computational feasibility of running a
specific market on a particular ledger.

![Design Phase of Token Ecosystem Creation Part 1 Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/Screenshot-2019-05-16-at-17.51.56.png)When setting the
network’s objective function it is important to also think through the various
utilities and types of network effects that will need to be supported. The
token is not just the interface between different network layers, but also
different utilities and network effects. To ensure that your token can support
the continued layering of utilities it is critical to make sure that you find
proper token network fit early on in your design.

To learn more about our phased strategic process for token ecosystem creation,
please download the [full report.](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/10/Token-Ecosystem-Creation-Outlier-Ventures-PDF.pdf)

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

