[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Designing for user focused incentives using a Token utility canvas

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Designing for user focused incentives using a Token utility canvas

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_geoff-150x150.jpg)

May 2019

Posted by

Geoff LeFevre

Crypto-economics Analyst

Previously as a product manager at Shortest Track, he worked at the
intersection of AI and blockchain designing token economies to support
enterprise AI initiatives. He has also advised a number of early-stage
projects on token design and ICO issuances....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1290)

In our last [post, ](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-importance-of-
stakeholder-and-value-mapping-in-token-ecosystem-creation/)we discussed
stakeholder and value mapping for designing your token model. As we wrap our
series on the Discovery Phase, it needs to be stressed that token design is
not only about systems design thinking. Incentives and mechanism design are
only part of the equation. It is equally important to take a user centered
approach in the design and take a long look at how the user will actually
interact with the system and their journey to it.

In this post we’ll discuss our Token Utility Canvas which we use in the
Discovery Phase to help map token utility across network layers and bridge the
gap between incentives and actual network users.



When examining token economies, we essentially look for the merged
optimization of two sets of economics, which we call layered economics, where
the token acts as the interface between these two layers:

  * ledger layer economics: provides the trust framework than enables all market layer activities. 
  * market layer economics: is where all the transactions occur



As the market exchanges digital services, the ledger layer is where key
attributes of each transaction need to be verified and simple contracts need
to be executed. The main goal of the ledger layer is to drive costs of
verification to as low a level as possible, ideally as near to costless as
possible without being free to abuse. Cost reduction and disintermediation are
the primary advantages of blockchain-based services over traditional
intermediary or audit-based economies where substantial value is lost in the
process as economic rent. Common examples of where a token is used to
facilitate low cost transactions for digital resources in payments,
computation, and data storage are Bitcoin, Ethereum and Filecoin.



At the market layer, the economics of the ecosystem are designed to align the
distribution of value in order to achieve a more efficient market that also
leverages powerful network effects. The token is used as an incentive or
disincentive to participants to behave both in their best interests and those
of the greater good of the ecosystem at large. Tokens represent an atomic
element of a network’s business model.



Each of these layers will have different users with different personas,
channels, and customer journeys. The token utility canvas is a useful tool to
not just get your initial design down on paper, but hopefully to help you and
your token team integrate a user centered approach to design. These systems
can be quite complex so thinking about how people will actually interact with
them is very important. It is ultimately users that drive adoption, so be sure
to keep your design centered around them.

In much the same way a business model canvas is used to capture key elements
of a venture’s business plan, a Token Utility Canvas seeks to outline the
utility of a token in its entirety and can broadly be broken out into two
sides: Business Centric Factors and Network Centric Factors as seen below.



# Network Centric Factors (Left Hand Side)

The left hand side of the canvas focuses on the network centric token model
and the internal factors that will influence the long term success and
sustainability of the ecosystem. This section of the canvas breaks down
subsections into ledger and market layers, a useful heuristic for tokenized
ecosystems.

  * Participants: What roles do stakeholders need to occupy in each layer? 
  * Undesired Behaviors: What are the incentives for each role, absent of any mechanism?
  * Desired Behaviors: What are the desired behaviors of each role within the ecosystem?
  * Mechanisms: What are the planned mechanisms to bridge the gap between each role’s incentives and desired behaviors?



# Business Centric Factors (Right Hand Side)

The right hand side of the canvas focuses on the business-centric token model
and the external factors that will influence the long term sustainability and
success of a tokenized ecosystem. It requires us to classify the token in
terms of its type, role & purpose, and underlying value which should help
clarify and develop a positioning strategy. As well as focus on designing for
the user’s experience with the network.



## Token Taxonomy

It is important to remember that a token is exactly that, a token. It does not
have any value or utility by itself, but instead its value and utility is
derived from the underlying asset or service that it represents. New types of
tokens are emerging all the time so any taxonomy is going undoubtedly evolve
with the space. That being said we found the taxonomy from [Untitled
Inc](http://www.untitled-inc.com/the-token-classification-framework-a-multi-
dimensional-tool-for-understanding-and-classifying-crypto-tokens/)
particularly useful. For more details on the Token Taxonomy that we use please
see our [Token Ecosystem Report](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/10/Token-Ecosystem-Creation-Outlier-Ventures-PDF.pdf). In
our Token Utility Canvas we describe a token using the following categories.

  * Token Type: What use does the token provide? 
  * Role and Purpose: What is the role of the token? 
  * Underlying Value: What is the value of the token tied to?



## Value Proposition: How value is created and captured?

This is one of the ecosystem’s distinguishing factors. Focusing on the
ecosystem’s value proposition helps the token design meet key value drivers,
while also aiding in the clear external communication of its value to
potential network participants.



## Experience/Service Design:

This section takes the otherwise business centric focus of the right hand side
of the canvas and gives your token team an opportunity to think about your
design in a user centerd way. Focusing on the human element of your token
design wll be a key element of success. We recommend using an Experience
Design lense. Experience design takes a holistic approach to a system’s value
proposition by putting the user front and centre, while providing an
actionable opportunity assessment. This type of design methodology is the
rationale behind the iterative process of token ecosystem creation, and
capturing the quantitative and qualitative aspects of users’ needs, habits and
motivations is a crucial part of this process.

In this section you should describe the various personas of your users, the
channels they will be first engaged, and the journey onto the network. This
should be done not just for end users of the service provided by the network,
but also for each key role within the network. Thinking through the user
experience this way can help focus certain design choices and prioritise your
roadmap to meet the needs of users, and help you focus on features that, for
example, are crucial to attract users types who are critical for early
adoption.



# Ocean Protocol Case Study

Below is a Utility Canvas we briefly filled out for [Ocean
Protocol,](https://oceanprotocol.com/) a decentralised data exchange protocol
to unlock data for AI. For the Experience section we focused on a single
persona for Data Providers, but in practice this should be expanded to include
other personas and other roles.

One of the tests of a token design is whether it is actually used by the users
the network is intended to serve. Before jumping into the design phase it is
critical to have a deep understanding of who your users will be and how
collectively they will contribute to the overall objective of the network. The
Token Utility Canvas presented here is just a tool that we hope will help
token teams structure and solve this problem so that they can design networks
that will be actually adopted. It is ultimately users that drive adoption, so
be sure to keep your design centered around them.

To learn more about our phased strategic process for token ecosystem creation,
please download the [full report.](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/10/Token-Ecosystem-Creation-Outlier-Ventures-PDF.pdf)

Posted by Geoff LeFevre - May 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_geoff-150x150.jpg)

May 2019

Posted by

Geoff LeFevre

Crypto-economics Analyst

Previously as a product manager at Shortest Track, he worked at the
intersection of AI and blockchain designing token economies to support
enterprise AI initiatives. He has also advised a number of early-stage
projects on token design and ICO issuances....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1290)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

