[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Designing a Smart City Through The Convergence

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Designing a Smart City Through The Convergence

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2017/04/ov_vangelis-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Vangelis Andrikopoulos

Research Analyst

Vangelis is an analyst focusing on deep quality assessment of deals that pass
the initial deal-flow stages. He is also exploring the convergence of
blockchain technology, artificial intelligence and the internet of
things....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1928)

# At Outlier Ventures we believe the Convergence Stack offers a valuable
framework for understanding and building the next phase of digital
infrastructure in cities.

## By Vangelis Andrikopoulos and Lawrence Lundy-Bryan

Posted by Vangelis Andrikopoulos - June 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2017/04/ov_vangelis-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Vangelis Andrikopoulos

Research Analyst

Vangelis is an analyst focusing on deep quality assessment of deals that pass
the initial deal-flow stages. He is also exploring the convergence of
blockchain technology, artificial intelligence and the internet of
things....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1928)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

## The Convergence Stack recognises how data is collected, transported and
exchanges in marketplaces that function both economically and for technology
innovation that consists of many moving parts. By bringing these elements
together we will create value and investable urban business models.

[Download the paper](https://outlierventures.io/research/decentralised-and-
open-data-turns-dubai-into-a-smart-city/) here to understand more.

![Designing a Smart City Through The Convergence Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/Screenshot-2019-05-29-at-16.53.40.png)

### Building the digital infrastructure for the Fourth Industrial Revolution

As our greatest challenges become increasingly global, and technological
progress continues its exponential march, cities are once again coming to the
fore. Nations are struggling to address global challenges like climate change,
migration, and an integrated global economy supercharged by the Internet.
Cities do not suffer from the same level of constitutional weight and are able
to be more flexible and adaptable to the fast-changing technological, cultural
and economic landscape. As the scale of emerging and present threats are
presented globally, such as climate change and migration, the nation is no
longer able to deliver effective policy responses.

Cities, on the other hand, offer a solution, as they reinforce collaboration
and globalism to tackle these global problems regardless of national borders.
It is the city that has the flexibility and opportunity to grasp the
opportunities emerging from the coming Fourth Industrial Revolution and make a
real and lasting impact. Cities must lead the revolution by utilizing data and
emerging technologies in an open, collaborative, and shared way to build the
digital infrastructure required to support a global, integrated and dynamic
economy.

### Renewal of the city

By 2050, 68% of the worldâ€™s population will live in cities. These megacities
will be producing more than 80% of the global Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and
will come to resemble the ancient state-cities of Athens, Rome, and Carthage -
but this time round, they will be fueled by data. These poles of attraction
tend to have similar challenges to nations around infrastructure,
connectivity, mobility, and healthcare and have developed their own distinct
cultural and economic micro-climates. Broken business models and misaligned
incentives between different city stakeholders have restrained innovation and
limited sustainable and inclusive growth.

Public-private partnerships are a start and have fostered collaboration
between corporations and governments by aligning the business models while
ensuring solutions meet the needs of citizens, not just shareholders. Cities,
just like communication networks, benefit from network effects - the more
citizens join, the more collaboration, innovation and economic output it
produces. The challenge comes in connecting people, assets and data to take
advantage of these city network effects.



![Designing a Smart City Through The Convergence Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/shutterstock_117863131.jpg)

### The smart city: a testbed for new economic models

A global economic transformation characterized by the proliferation of service
industries that may replace even heavy industries and manufacturing is also
reflected in smart cities.

We are shifting from the current closed value chain towards an open value
ecosystem. Energy production is undertaken by industrial and corporate energy
vendors in a centralized manner, distributed to gas stations and then consumed
in a rigid one-way transactional fashion. In the coming open value ecosystem,
energy can be produced with solar panels, distributed on a transactive
blockchain-based smart grid and consumed by the consumers (prosumers).
Digitization turns our passive tools active. As infrastructure and energy
trend towards commoditization, new economic value emerges from the production,
collection, and analysis of data. This trend is reflected in all the other
segments of smart cities.

![Designing a Smart City Through The Convergence Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/ov_sd_squarehero_586px.gif)

Participants such as citizens, prosumers, software companies and local
entrepreneurs who previously captured little to no value are now capturing
more of that value. The success of this value-driven ecosystem depends on the
premise that the right mechanisms are put in place to incentivize participants
to share data and break current data silos. Let us explore the collection,
safe storage, distribution and utilization of data through the Convergence
Stack.

### The Convergence Stack in smart cities

In the Convergence Stack, data is the core asset. Covering hardware, software,
networking and applications, the stack underpins a private, secure, and
decentralized digital infrastructure all coordinated by crypto-tokens. This
new infrastructure requires a host of technologies from the hardware to secure
the data to the tools to distribute the data like distributed ledgers. It will
also need new routing and authentication technologies, interfacing
technologies to make it easier to build applications, and new services,
marketplaces and applications for users to benefit from what we hope to be a
more equitable digital infrastructure.

The current centralized data infrastructure is broken. It is broken from a
technical perspective. It is broken from a security and privacy perspective.
And it is nowhere near ready to handle the convergence of technologies and
markets in a smart city environment. We need a new digital infrastructure. As
cities become the preeminent arena for economic growth and global problem-
solving, we expect to see city-states lead to the development of digital
infrastructure to support the Fourth Industrial Revolution.

For smart cities to thrive and be successful, they need to look beyond
specific technologies or desires of particular industries. They must take a
holistic and integrated view and see the emerging decentralized digital
ecosystem as an opportunity to be grasped. They need to see that the internet
of things, blockchain technology, and artificial intelligence are all
interconnected. These technologies form the backbone of a trusted digital
infrastructure.

Only once a new trusted digital infrastructure has been installed can the
benefits of a truly smart city be shared widely and equitably. Outlier
Ventures is embarking on a journey with Smart Dubai to apply the Convergence
Stack on the cityâ€™s decentralised and open data infrastructure.

[Download the paper](https://outlierventures.io/research/decentralised-and-
open-data-turns-dubai-into-a-smart-city/) here to understand more:

![Designing a Smart City Through The Convergence Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/SmartCities_Social-21.jpg)



_This article is for information purposes only and does not constitute
investment advice. This article does not amount to an invitation or inducement
to buy or sell an investment nor does it solicit any such offer or invitation
in any jurisdiction._

_In all cases, readers should conduct their own investigation and analysis of
the data in the article. All statements of opinion and/or belief contained in
this article and all views expressed and all projections, forecasts or
statements relating to expectations regarding future events represent Outlier
Ventures Operation Limited own assessment and interpretation of information
available as at the date of this article._

_No responsibility or liability is accepted by Outlier Ventures Operations
Limited or Sapia Partners LLP for reliance on the contents of this article._

_Outlier Ventures is an Appointed Representative of Sapia Partners LLP, a firm
authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)._

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

