[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ 中文 ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [awards](../../../blog/awards)
  * [updates](../../../blog/updates)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Jun 30, 2020  

## Dev Grants Wave 3 Update, Wave 4 RFPs

It’s very exciting to see the growth of interest in the [**Filecoin Dev Grant
program**](https://filecoin.io/grants). Dev Grants are intended to spark new
explorations that use Filecoin, and tools and services that help grow this
early ecosystem.

New proposals are evaluated every quarter on an ongoing basis. [**Areas of
interest**](https://github.com/filecoin-project/devgrants#technical-areas)
cover many parts of the technical stack ranging from mining to protocol
enhancements to developer and market-making tools to end-user dapps, so
there’s something for everyone.

As we head towards [**mainnet
launch**](https://app.instagantt.com/shared/s/1152992274307505/latest) in the
coming months the focus of recent grants have been developer tools and
projects that aim to improve the usability of the Filecoin protocol.

For Wave 3 of Dev Grants that were due in April, we received 44 proposals from
the community. Among those funded are the following projects:

  * MetaMask SNAP plugin for Filecoin
  * Multichain API (co-grant with [**W3F**](https://web3.foundation/grants/))
  * Starling Verify (capture, store and verify digital media)
  * Starling Storage (user research with [**GLAM**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GLAM_\(industry_sector\)) archivists)
  * Starling Storage (API / CLI updates adding encryption)
  * Proxy Re-encryption service
  * Data CID Status Checker / Storage Oracle
  * Filecoin Cloud Images (for [Packer.io](https://www.packer.io/))
  * Diagram of the Filecoin blockchain

Thanks to all teams that applied! Proposals not funded in Wave 3 will be re-
considered in Wave 4. Wave 4 proposals are due **July 1st at 23:59 PDT** for
priority consideration. We will evaluate later proposals as capacity allows. A
list of [**Wave 4 RFPs**](https://github.com/filecoin-
project/devgrants/blob/master/rfps/new-wave-4-rfps.md) is available and we
also encourage teams to apply for Open Grants with your own ideas.

There is also an exciting 30-day [**HackFS virtual
hackthon**](https://filecoin.io/blog/announcing-filecoin-ignite-and-hackfs/)
coming up on July 6th where you can noodle on new Filecoin experiments with
other dapp developers and receive technical advice and support. [_Apply for
HackFS_](https://hackfs.com/) to participate!

### PB-scale miner testing RFP update

We received 48 proposals in Wave 3 for PB-scale miner testing RFP. Because
proofs will continue to evolve, for this grant we have decided to focus on
understanding the performance and tradeoffs of different **storage layer
options** better. We will be reaching out to select teams who described
interesting storage layer technology in their proposals soon.

Filecoin mining operators with large amounts of storage are also encouraged to
participate in the upcoming
[**SpaceRace**](https://filecoin.io/blog/announcing-testnet-incentives/)
world-wide testnet incentives program.

_Cheers to all community members who submitted dev grant proposals and we hope
to see more of you in upcoming waves!_

### Related Articles

[View all articles](../../../blog)

[ ](../../../blog/posts/announcing-chainlink-filecoin-joint-grants-for-dapps-
combining-decentralized-storage-and-oracles/)

updates

##  [ Announcing Chainlink-Filecoin Joint Grants for dApps Combining
Decentralized Storage and Oracles ](../../../blog/posts/announcing-chainlink-
filecoin-joint-grants-for-dapps-combining-decentralized-storage-and-oracles/)

Chainlink and Filecoin are launching a joint grant initiative to accelerate
development of hybrid smart contracts that combine Chainlink decentralized
oracles and Filecoin decentralized storage within a single application.

Aug 6, 2021

[ ](../../../blog/posts/filecoin-and-hedera-hashgraph-announce-grant-program-
to-propel-web3-interoperability/)

updates

##  [ Filecoin and Hedera Hashgraph Announce Grant Program to Propel Web3
Interoperability ](../../../blog/posts/filecoin-and-hedera-hashgraph-announce-
grant-program-to-propel-web3-interoperability/)

Today, Filecoin and Hedera Hashgraph are announcing a joint effort to advance
the interoperability of Web3.

Jul 27, 2021

[ ](../../../blog/posts/filecoin-dev-grants-wave-3-new-rfps-wave-1-2/)

updates

##  [ Filecoin Dev Grants - Wave 3 New RFPs, Wave 1 & 2
](../../../blog/posts/filecoin-dev-grants-wave-3-new-rfps-wave-1-2/)

The Wave 3 deadline for Filecoin Dev Grants has been extended to April 15th at
23:59 PDT. This is the final wave with a few months to build something before
Filecoin’s mainnet launch. A wide range of new RFP ideas have been published
here and we hope this sparks more ideas and discussion of what could be built.

Apr 8, 2020

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You’ve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

