Toggle Navigation [ [![Concourse Open](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)
](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)

  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ConcourseOpen "Twitter")
  * [Discord](https://discord.gg/mzDxADE "Discord")
  * [Projects](https://concourseopen.com "Projects")

## Settle Portfolio

Modular portfolio management supporting Digital Asset and Crypto Derivatives.

Open App

DEX.AG Unveils User Balances Page, Transaction History Page, and many other
UX/UI Upgrades Inspired by Feedback

# DEX.AG Unveils User Balances Page, Transaction History Page, and many other
UX/UI Upgrades Inspired by Feedback

##### March 27, 2020

Nearly every object you interact with in your daily life has been designed for
its intended use case. This fact is easy to forget or overlook, but design
affects nearly everything you do. And, how you interact with these designs
impacts them over time because design is an iterative process.

DEX.AG's design has been no different; each new upgrade to DEX.AG improves on
the last, incorporating as much user feedback as possible. The collaboration
between our vision for DEX.AG and thoughts from users like yourself has made a
positive impact on the end result. Although, "end result" is sort of a
misnomer in the fast-paced world of DeFi where the innovation never seems to
end. We're pleased that this latest update to [DEX.AG](https://dex.ag/)
introduces new additions and many desired UX/UI improvements.

# Pushing DEX.AG's design forward

The Connect Wallet feature implemented in our previous update has opened many
doors and put us a step further towards the ultimate vision we have for
DEX.AG. Additionally, we've incorporated a lot of your feedback regarding
UX/UI changes we've received about in our
[Discord](https://discord.gg/vSATe24) and on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/DEXAG_TokenWire).

## Wallet Balances MVP

As previously mentioned, connecting your wallet enables many new features on
DEX.AG. The new Balances tab in [DEX.AG Pro](https://dex.ag/pro) let's you
view your wallet's token balances as well as perform actions like wrapping and
unwrapping ETH/WETH. The USD value of your portfolio has been included for
your convenience. This is the MVP; however, we have lots of plans this new
section of DEX.AG which will allow users to easily manage their portfolios.

## [![](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2020/03/dexag_userbalances.png)](https://dex.ag/pro)

## Transaction History MVP

But wait there's more! You can now view your DEX.AG transaction history in
DEX.AG Pro under the History tab. We know that maintaining a successful
trading strategy requires being able to assess your historical performance and
often times diligent record-keeping. The History tab will help you stay on top
of your trading history by providing you the info you need in one convenient
place. Not to mention, the time and headaches that this history might save
users during tax season.

[![](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2020/03/Selection_999067.png)](https://dex.ag/pro)

## UI Improvements

### Recommended gas price

We've saved you a trip to our other service [ETH Gas
Station](http://ethgasstation.info) by adding a recommended gas price at the
top of DEX.AG. This addition will save your precious time when you're under
pressure trying to squeeze in that quick trade.

### Token selection dropdown menu sorted by balances

We've received lots of feedback from DEX.AG users about their desire for a
faster, more convenient token selection menu. **We 're pleased to unveil the
new tokens in the dropdown menu are now tabulated and sorted by your connected
wallet's token balances.** Making a trade is easier than ever now that you can
see your preferred tokens right at the top of the list. In addition to our
existing search function, try mousing over the top left and lower left of the
dropdown menu to experience a little something I like to call _h_
_yperscroll_.

[![](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2020/03/Selection_999069.png)](https://dex.ag/)

### MAX Button

The long-awaited MAX button has finally arrived! Connecting your wallet
enables the MAX button allowing you to buy or sell the MAX amount of tokens
possible for your selected trading pair based on current token balances. It's
perfect for saving time during quick swaps and sweeping the dust out of old
wallets. We're planning on expanding this function in future updates for even
more convenience.

### Wallet balances and Trading Pair Swapper Tool on PRO

Improving on DEX.AG Pro design, current token balances are now displayed
directly in the trading interface. We've also added a Trading Pair Swapper
Tool which let's you easily flip or flop selected token trading pair at the
click of a button (i.e. ETH/DAI <> DAI/ETH).

## Try it today

Thank you for reading! Please head over to [DEX.AG](https://dex.ag/) and try
out all the new upgrades to our aggregated DEX trading experience. Our goal is
to give you the best opportunities in these fast-moving markets and feedback
from users like yourself have helped make DEX.AG what it is today. So once
you're finished, Please let us know what you think in our
[Discord](https://discord.gg/vSATe24) or
[Twitter.](https://twitter.com/DEXAG_TokenWire)

* * *

##### ‚õ∞ [Concourse Open Community‚Äã](https://concourseopen.com/)

##### ‚õΩ [ETH Gas Station](https://ethgasstation.info/)

##### üêø [DEX.AG](https://dex.ag/)

##### üçá [DeFi Pulse](https://defipulse.com/)

##### [üé£ ](http://data.concourseopen.com)[DeFi Pulse
Data](http://data.defipulse.com)

##### üí∏ [Whisp](https://whisp.money/)

##### üî• [Rek.to](https://rek.to/)

## Post navigation

[Previous

Push it to the Limit with DEX.AG - NEW Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and Connect
Wallet Options

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-limit-orders/)

Search for: Search

#### Recent Posts

  * [DEX.AG Unveils User Balances Page, Transaction History Page, and many other UX/UI Upgrades Inspired by Feedback](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-ui-upgrades-balances-history/)
  * [Push it to the Limit with DEX.AG - NEW Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and Connect Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-limit-orders/)
  * [DEX.AG Daredevil Update: Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and New Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-daredevil-update-limit-orders/)
  * [Trade DEXes like a Pro with DEX.AG - real time charts, prices, and order books](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-pro-trading/)
  * [DEX.AG: Expert Trading Mode with Charts](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-expert-trading-beta/)

#### Archives

  * [March 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/03/)
  * [February 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/02/)
  * [January 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/01/)
  * [December 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/12/)
  * [November 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/11/)
  * [October 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/10/)
  * [September 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/09/)
  * [August 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/08/)
  * [July 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/07/)
  * [June 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/06/)
  * [May 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/05/)
  * [April 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/04/)

#### Categories

  * [Business](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/business/)
  * [Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/community/)
  * [Concourse Open Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-community/)
  * [Concourse Open Constructions](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-constructions/)
  * [ConcourseQ](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourseq/)
  * [DAO](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dao/)
  * [Developer Docs](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/developer-docs/)
  * [DEX](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex/)
  * [DEX.AG](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex-ag/)
  * [Ecosystem](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/ecosystem/)
  * [Exchange](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchange/)
  * [Exchanges](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchanges/)
  * [Explainers](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/explainers/)
  * [Humans](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/humans/)
  * [New Features](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/new-features/)
  * [Protocol](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/protocol/)
  * [Technology](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/technology/)
  * [Terrible Token Tuesday](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/terrible-token-tuesday/)
  * [Trading](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/trading/)
  * [Whisp](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/whisp/)

#### Meta

  * [Log in](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-login.php)
  * [Entries feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/feed/)
  * [Comments feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/comments/feed/)
  * [WordPress.org](https://wordpress.org/)

[![Settle](/blog/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com)

(C) 2021 Concourse Open

