Toggle Navigation [ [![Concourse Open](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)
](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)

  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ConcourseOpen "Twitter")
  * [Discord](https://discord.gg/mzDxADE "Discord")
  * [Projects](https://concourseopen.com "Projects")

## Settle Portfolio

Modular portfolio management supporting Digital Asset and Crypto Derivatives.

Open App

DEX.AG Daredevil Update: Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and New Wallet Options

# DEX.AG Daredevil Update: Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and New Wallet Options

##### March 9, 2020

Our team has been working hard to bring you this
[DEX.AG](https://daredevil.dex.ag/pro) update featuring limit orders,
Curve.fi, new wallet options, and more changes requested by users like you.
We're excited to be taking the next step towards our grand vision for DEX.AG,
an aggregated DEX trading that outrivals any centralized exchange by bringing
together some of the best our community has to offer!

### Limit orders

[DEX.AG Pro](https://daredevil.dex.ag/pro) just leveled up with the addition
of limit orders. Limit orders are an essential tool for almost any trader's
strategy which is why it naturally fits into DEX.AG's Swiss Army Knife for DEX
traders. On top of the obvious benefits of placing a trade at your desired
price, limit orders only require a signature meaning you don't have to pay any
gas fees. For this initial beta, limit orders will only be available for
select tokens including ETH, DAI, USDC, ZRX, REP, BAT, and LINK to ensure a
quality trading experience.

### [![](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2020/03/Selection_999054.png)](https://daredevil.dex.ag/pro)

### Curve.fi

Stablecoins are some of our most frequently traded pairs which is why we're
pleased to announce Curve as a new source of liquidity on DEX.AG. Curve in
combination with our X Blaster allows you to trade popular stablecoins like
DAI, USDC, USDT, and TUSD with little to no slippage even for high amounts.
Although that said, during this beta period we recommend users err on the side
of caution and trade only with smaller amounts.

### [![](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2020/03/09-03-2020_075207-chart.png)](https://daredevil.dex.ag/)

### New Connect Wallet Options

If you're like me, you probably have multiple wallets spread across your
devices including a growing list of smart wallets. The truth is whether you
need to make a quick swap on-the-go via our Simple Trading interface or place
a limit order in Pro, you want access to the best prices and liquidity for
your trade no matter what wallet you're using. And so, we've expanded our
available wallet options! **In addition to MetaMask and web3 browsers, you can
now connect WalletConnect, Portis, Fortmatic, and Authereum wallets to DEX.AG
and start trading DEXes like a pro.**

Thanks for reading! We appreciate your support and feedback which helps us
refine DEX.AG's trading experience. **Try out[DEX.AG limit
orders](https://daredevil.dex.ag/pro) and our other new features today! **Keep
in mind that this feature is still in beta so use caution and trade with small
amounts. Also, please let us know what you think in our
[Discord](https://discord.gg/vSATe24).

Follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/DEXAG_TokenWire) to stay informed
on the latest updates to DEX.AG.

* * *

##### ‚õ∞ [Concourse Open Community‚Äã](https://concourseopen.com/)

##### ‚õΩ [ETH Gas Station](https://ethgasstation.info/)

##### üêø [DEX.AG](https://dex.ag/)

##### üçá [DeFi Pulse](https://defipulse.com/)

##### [üé£ ](http://data.concourseopen.com)[DeFi Pulse
Data](http://data.defipulse.com)

##### üí∏ [Whisp](https://whisp.money/)

##### üî• [Rek.to](https://rek.to/)

## Post navigation

[Previous

Trade DEXes like a Pro with DEX.AG - real time charts, prices, and order books

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-pro-trading/)

[ Next

Push it to the Limit with DEX.AG - NEW Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and Connect
Wallet Options

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-limit-orders/)

Search for: Search

#### Recent Posts

  * [DEX.AG Unveils User Balances Page, Transaction History Page, and many other UX/UI Upgrades Inspired by Feedback](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-ui-upgrades-balances-history/)
  * [Push it to the Limit with DEX.AG - NEW Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and Connect Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-limit-orders/)
  * [DEX.AG Daredevil Update: Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and New Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-daredevil-update-limit-orders/)
  * [Trade DEXes like a Pro with DEX.AG - real time charts, prices, and order books](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-pro-trading/)
  * [DEX.AG: Expert Trading Mode with Charts](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-expert-trading-beta/)

#### Archives

  * [March 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/03/)
  * [February 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/02/)
  * [January 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/01/)
  * [December 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/12/)
  * [November 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/11/)
  * [October 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/10/)
  * [September 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/09/)
  * [August 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/08/)
  * [July 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/07/)
  * [June 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/06/)
  * [May 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/05/)
  * [April 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/04/)

#### Categories

  * [Business](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/business/)
  * [Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/community/)
  * [Concourse Open Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-community/)
  * [Concourse Open Constructions](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-constructions/)
  * [ConcourseQ](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourseq/)
  * [DAO](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dao/)
  * [Developer Docs](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/developer-docs/)
  * [DEX](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex/)
  * [DEX.AG](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex-ag/)
  * [Ecosystem](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/ecosystem/)
  * [Exchange](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchange/)
  * [Exchanges](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchanges/)
  * [Explainers](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/explainers/)
  * [Humans](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/humans/)
  * [New Features](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/new-features/)
  * [Protocol](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/protocol/)
  * [Technology](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/technology/)
  * [Terrible Token Tuesday](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/terrible-token-tuesday/)
  * [Trading](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/trading/)
  * [Whisp](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/whisp/)

#### Meta

  * [Log in](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-login.php)
  * [Entries feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/feed/)
  * [Comments feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/comments/feed/)
  * [WordPress.org](https://wordpress.org/)

[![Settle](/blog/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com)

(C) 2021 Concourse Open

