Toggle Navigation [ [![Concourse Open](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)
](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)

  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ConcourseOpen "Twitter")
  * [Discord](https://discord.gg/mzDxADE "Discord")
  * [Projects](https://concourseopen.com "Projects")

## Settle Portfolio

Modular portfolio management supporting Digital Asset and Crypto Derivatives.

Open App

DEX.AG: 5x Lower Slippage with Real Time Prices

# DEX.AG: 5x Lower Slippage with Real Time Prices

##### January 28, 2020

We're excited to announce the latest upgrade to [DEX.AG](https://dex.ag/),
which gives you all the convenience and functionality you've come to expect
from our DEX aggregator with a faster, more responsive user experience.

### Liveness is your edge

As DEX volumes and usage keep trending upwards, so does competition for the
best trades. For today's DEX traders, that means less and less time to find
and seize upon trading opportunities. So we designed the latest version of
[DEX.AG](https://dex.ag/) to help you stay on top in this fast-moving space.

With our completely revised architecture, your price results appear nearly
instantaneously. Plus, the results update automatically in real time as prices
change, so you don‚Äôt need to refresh the page or re-execute your search.

As DEX users, volume, and liquidity grow, even a fraction of a second can make
all the difference, and we want you to remain competitive. Check out
[DEX.AG](https://dex.ag) now to see for yourself the difference that liveness
can make.

### **[![DEX.AG Live aggregator is 5x
faster](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2020/01/20200117-DEX.AG-
Live-e1579296207484.png)](https://live.dex.ag/)DEX.AG's speed redefines the
DEX trading experience  
**

If you haven't tried [DEX.AG](https://live.dex.ag/), here are just some of the
features you've been missing:

  * simple, intuitive interface for getting and trading with the [best price across 11 different DEXes](https://ethgasstation.info/blog/why-dex-ag/)
  * trade directly from DEX.AG using our ‚ÄòBuy Now‚Äô button
  * forget about WETH vs. ETH: any need for wrapping ETH happens in the background
  * zero additional trading fees (any exchange fees are factored into the total price you see)
  * [X Blaster](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-x-blaster/) splits your large order into smaller ones across several exchanges to get you the best price for your trade
  * new features and tokens added regularly; check the latest [30 Days of ETH](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-december-2019/) for details 
  * mobile-friendly

We've worked hard to make [DEX.AG](https://live.dex.ag/) work as smoothly as
possible. So once you've tried it, we'd love to hear your feedback in our
[Discord](https://discord.gg/vSATe24). Follow us on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/DEXAG_TokenWire) to stay informed on the latest
updates to DEX.AG.

* * *

##### ‚õ∞ [Concourse Open Community‚Äã](https://concourseopen.com/)

##### ‚õΩ [ETH Gas Station](https://ethgasstation.info/)

##### üêø [DEX.AG](https://dex.ag/)

##### üçá [DeFi Pulse](https://defipulse.com/)

##### [üé£ ](http://data.concourseopen.com)[DeFi Pulse
Data](http://data.defipulse.com)

##### üí∏ [Whisp](https://whisp.money/)

##### üî• [Rek.to](https://rek.to/)

## Post navigation

[Previous

30 Days of ETH - December 2019

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/30-days-of-eth-december-2019/)

[ Next

So Long ConcourseQ

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/so-long-concourseq/)

Search for: Search

#### Recent Posts

  * [DEX.AG Unveils User Balances Page, Transaction History Page, and many other UX/UI Upgrades Inspired by Feedback](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-ui-upgrades-balances-history/)
  * [Push it to the Limit with DEX.AG - NEW Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and Connect Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-limit-orders/)
  * [DEX.AG Daredevil Update: Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and New Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-daredevil-update-limit-orders/)
  * [Trade DEXes like a Pro with DEX.AG - real time charts, prices, and order books](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-pro-trading/)
  * [DEX.AG: Expert Trading Mode with Charts](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-expert-trading-beta/)

#### Archives

  * [March 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/03/)
  * [February 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/02/)
  * [January 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/01/)
  * [December 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/12/)
  * [November 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/11/)
  * [October 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/10/)
  * [September 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/09/)
  * [August 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/08/)
  * [July 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/07/)
  * [June 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/06/)
  * [May 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/05/)
  * [April 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/04/)

#### Categories

  * [Business](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/business/)
  * [Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/community/)
  * [Concourse Open Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-community/)
  * [Concourse Open Constructions](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-constructions/)
  * [ConcourseQ](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourseq/)
  * [DAO](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dao/)
  * [Developer Docs](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/developer-docs/)
  * [DEX](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex/)
  * [DEX.AG](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex-ag/)
  * [Ecosystem](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/ecosystem/)
  * [Exchange](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchange/)
  * [Exchanges](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchanges/)
  * [Explainers](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/explainers/)
  * [Humans](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/humans/)
  * [New Features](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/new-features/)
  * [Protocol](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/protocol/)
  * [Technology](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/technology/)
  * [Terrible Token Tuesday](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/terrible-token-tuesday/)
  * [Trading](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/trading/)
  * [Whisp](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/whisp/)

#### Meta

  * [Log in](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-login.php)
  * [Entries feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/feed/)
  * [Comments feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/comments/feed/)
  * [WordPress.org](https://wordpress.org/)

[![Settle](/blog/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com)

(C) 2021 Concourse Open

