Toggle Navigation [ [![Concourse Open](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)
](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)

  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ConcourseOpen "Twitter")
  * [Discord](https://discord.gg/mzDxADE "Discord")
  * [Projects](https://concourseopen.com "Projects")

## Settle Portfolio

Modular portfolio management supporting Digital Asset and Crypto Derivatives.

Open App

DEX.AG: Expert Trading Mode with Charts

# DEX.AG: Expert Trading Mode with Charts

##### February 6, 2020

Introducing DEX.AG's new [Expert Trading](https://daredevil.dex.ag/) mode with
charts. This new beta aims to bring you a more sophisticated yet familiar DEX
trading experience with the data and tools you need to get the job done.

### Next step in the evolution of DEX trading

Decentralized exchanges have come a long way in the past few years. However,
many traders still long for the features that you'd expect to find on a
typical exchange like live charts and order books. In fact, it's one of the
most commonly requested features we hear from our users. DEX.AG's [Expert
Trading](https://daredevil.dex.ag/) mode delivers these requested features
taking your DEX trading experience to the next level.

### [![dex.ag expert trading](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2020/02/Selection_971.png)](https://daredevil.dex.ag/)

Expert Trading mode provides you with the information you need to make
informed decisions, even in the heat of the moment. With charts, you're able
to see historical prices from numerous trading pairs and markets as well as
take advantage of technical indicators such as RSI, MACD, etc. Additionally,
the order book lists available bids and asks from popular DEXes so you never
miss an opportunity.

### Stay on top of the market with DEX.AG

In addition to our new Expert Trading mode, DEX.AG is loaded with features
that help you seize opportunities with ease. For those quick trades, our
Simple Trading mode gets you the best price from 9 different DEXes with real
time price updates and it's mobile-friendly. Our X Blaster gets you more bang
for your buck by spreading your trade across multiple DEXes. Plus, its real
time price updates combined with the fact any DEX fees are incorporated into
the total cost of your trade, there's no need to think twice about whether
you're getting the best price.

**Try out DEX.AG 's [Expert Trading](https://daredevil.dex.ag/) today! **Keep
in mind that this feature is still in beta so use caution and trade with small
amounts. Also, please let us know what you think in our
[Discord](https://discord.gg/vSATe24). We appreciate your feedback because it
helps us improve DEX.AG.

Follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/DEXAG_TokenWire) to stay informed
on the latest updates to DEX.AG.

* * *

##### ‚õ∞ [Concourse Open Community‚Äã](https://concourseopen.com/)

##### ‚õΩ [ETH Gas Station](https://ethgasstation.info/)

##### üêø [DEX.AG](https://dex.ag/)

##### üçá [DeFi Pulse](https://defipulse.com/)

##### [üé£ ](http://data.concourseopen.com)[DeFi Pulse
Data](http://data.defipulse.com)

##### üí∏ [Whisp](https://whisp.money/)

##### üî• [Rek.to](https://rek.to/)

## Post navigation

[Previous

So Long ConcourseQ

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/so-long-concourseq/)

[ Next

Trade DEXes like a Pro with DEX.AG - real time charts, prices, and order books

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-pro-trading/)

Search for: Search

#### Recent Posts

  * [DEX.AG Unveils User Balances Page, Transaction History Page, and many other UX/UI Upgrades Inspired by Feedback](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-ui-upgrades-balances-history/)
  * [Push it to the Limit with DEX.AG - NEW Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and Connect Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-limit-orders/)
  * [DEX.AG Daredevil Update: Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and New Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-daredevil-update-limit-orders/)
  * [Trade DEXes like a Pro with DEX.AG - real time charts, prices, and order books](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-pro-trading/)
  * [DEX.AG: Expert Trading Mode with Charts](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-expert-trading-beta/)

#### Archives

  * [March 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/03/)
  * [February 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/02/)
  * [January 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/01/)
  * [December 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/12/)
  * [November 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/11/)
  * [October 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/10/)
  * [September 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/09/)
  * [August 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/08/)
  * [July 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/07/)
  * [June 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/06/)
  * [May 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/05/)
  * [April 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/04/)

#### Categories

  * [Business](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/business/)
  * [Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/community/)
  * [Concourse Open Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-community/)
  * [Concourse Open Constructions](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-constructions/)
  * [ConcourseQ](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourseq/)
  * [DAO](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dao/)
  * [Developer Docs](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/developer-docs/)
  * [DEX](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex/)
  * [DEX.AG](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex-ag/)
  * [Ecosystem](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/ecosystem/)
  * [Exchange](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchange/)
  * [Exchanges](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchanges/)
  * [Explainers](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/explainers/)
  * [Humans](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/humans/)
  * [New Features](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/new-features/)
  * [Protocol](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/protocol/)
  * [Technology](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/technology/)
  * [Terrible Token Tuesday](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/terrible-token-tuesday/)
  * [Trading](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/trading/)
  * [Whisp](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/whisp/)

#### Meta

  * [Log in](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-login.php)
  * [Entries feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/feed/)
  * [Comments feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/comments/feed/)
  * [WordPress.org](https://wordpress.org/)

[![Settle](/blog/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com)

(C) 2021 Concourse Open

