[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Diffusion 2019: 15 Protocols, 25m+ lines of open source code, 2 days of
hacking

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Diffusion 2019: 15 Protocols, 25m+ lines of open source code, 2 days of
hacking

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![]()

August 2019

Posted by

Laura Formby

Marketing Executive Intern

...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=6394)

# What is Diffusion and how can you be a part of it?

Further information about [Diffusion 2019](https://diffusion.events/) is
available at [https://diffusion.events/](https://diffusion.events/)

Apply now for one of 350 exclusive free places.

Posted by Laura Formby - August 2019

![]()

August 2019

Posted by

Laura Formby

Marketing Executive Intern

...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=6394)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

## For the first time since 2013, Outlier Ventures and 15 protocols including
Fetch.AI, Cosmos, IOTA, Chainlink, Enigma, Sovrin, Evernym, Haja Networks,
Agoric Systems, Ocean Protocol, FOAM, Alkemi, RightMesh and SEED have come
together for a combined dev con, “Diffusion” to build an alternative web.

The hackathon-style event will take place in Berlin on the 19th -20th of
October 2019 focusing on the practical application of distributed ledger
technology, smart contracts and programmable tokens, to create a new data
layer, and enable other deep technologies like AI and IoT to combine and
converge in order to define the next major web cycle.

### What is Diffusion?

Outlier Ventures and 15 protocols have joined forces to create our first dev
con, Diffusion 2019, where developer communities will be able to build a
literal stack of technologies that combined together enable a new data economy
centred around privacy, the decentralisation of insecure cloud architecture
and the deconstruction of platform monopolies, known as ‘The Convergence
Stack’.

The two-day event will include dapps, network improvements, stack
integrations, tooling and documentation to accelerate adoption and network
growth. The event will also feature a series of exclusive product launches,
live demos, enterprise partnership announcements and Q&As from founders and
core dev teams from across The Stack as well as presentations from leading
developers, economists and system engineers.

### How can you be a part of Outlier Ventures first dev con?

If you are interested in taking part of Diffusion 2019 click the ‘Apply now’
button on[ https://diffusion.events/](https://diffusion.events/) to be a
mentor, volunteer or hackathon team.

Before securing your place at our two-day dev con, make sure you are applying
for the correct option.

#### Hackathon team:

If you are applying as a hackathon team, we are looking for:

  * Web 3.0/blockchain developers with some experience;
  * Web 2.0/enterprise full-stack developers;
  * Front end/ UX developers;
  * Data scientists.

This could be as individuals, teams or organisations. If you are joining as a
team we are looking for a maximum of 5 members. Therefore, you do not need a
team to participate in Diffusion 2019.

If you are an individual looking for a team visit the Participants page on
<https://diffusion2019.devpost.com> to see other users who are registered for
that hackathon.

#### Mentors:

We are also looking for mentors which will help the teams of developers
compete in challenges including build of dapps, network improvements, stack
integrations, tooling and documentation to accelerate adoption and network
growth. Mentors come in various forms including technical, legal, business,
artificial intelligence, blockchain, data science, cryptography, regulation
and more.

If you apply to become a mentor you will contribute to the success of the
event by guiding the teams around obstacles, working closely with the teams
and encouraging collaboration between them.

If you’d like to apply to be a mentor please head to the application form
here: <https://buff.ly/2ycgcpl>

#### Volunteers:

We are also looking for volunteers to help run and support Diffusion 2019 this
could include the distribution of sustenance to teams; checking-in
participants, speakers, and mentors; and being on hand for advice and support
over the weekend.

If you’d like to apply to be a volunteer please head to the application form
here: <https://buff.ly/2OAWrmH>

During the hackathon, you need to enter a submission via the submission form.
This will enable you to submit a project. When you create a project you are
creating the project page that will house the details about what you're
working on. When you want to enter that project as a submission to Diffusion
2019 that's when it is considered a submission for the prize.

We are looking forward to seeing you at our dev con taking place at Factory
Berlin Görlitzer Park Lohmühlenstraße 65, 12435 Berlin, Germany on 19th and
20th October.



Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

