[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/37ff9ef73129&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Crypto
Punks](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*RuBSr8PcbcSSimYWrpQsHA.png)](https://medium.com/crypto-
punks?source=post_page-----37ff9ef73129--------------------------------)

Published in

[Crypto Punks

](https://medium.com/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
37ff9ef73129--------------------------------)

[![Sam
Aiken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/0*KLR9G_nzD3rK1p1w.jpg)](/@SamAI_Software?source=post_page
-----37ff9ef73129--------------------------------)

[Sam Aiken](/@SamAI_Software?source=post_page-----
37ff9ef73129--------------------------------)

Follow

Oct 1, 2019

·

12 min read

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*MOfVGnblMZLWwRjv7so4kg.jpeg)

Image: [Thomas Chan](https://unsplash.com/photos/c_IsvcuJz3I)

# Digital resistance: security & privacy tips from Hong Kong protesters

## Full digital gear: Telegram, Protonmail, AirDrop, FireChat, Bridgefy,
PrivateBin, Fingertrapp, What3Words, Tor, VPN, prepaid SIM-cards, burner
phones.

 _Disclosure: in this article we focus on tech, rather than politics. If you
disagree with any information below feel free to participate in the
discussion. If you think that I’m a pro-US shill, then read my article about_[
_US imperialism_](/crypto-punks/how-to-onboard-your-folks-to-crypto-1-from-
gold-to-petroyuan-de-dollarization-a3dc29201210) _. This article is brought to
you by a privacy-oriented peer-to-peer marketplace_[ **
_LocalCryptos_**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra) _, so you can read
the content for free without Medium’s paywall or Google ads. I also own BTC,
ETH, BCH, and many other coins._

> HK youths: Hong Kong is not China!
>
> Chinese: Hong Kong is a part of China!
>
> Me: Hong Kong is a Cypherpunk Harbour!

# Intro

In the [previous article](/crypto-punks/decentralized-governance-inside-hong-
kongs-open-source-revolution-lihkg-reddit-pincong-519ab2861793) we’ve
discussed how protesters make collective decisions using platforms such as
LIHKG, Reddit, and Pincong.

[

## Decentralized governance: inside Hong Kong’s open source revolution (LIHKG,
Reddit, Pincong…

### Dear passengers, welcome to Hong Kong, Cypherpunk Harbour. Please wipe out
your chat logs, photos, browsing history…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/decentralized-governance-inside-hong-kongs-open-source-
revolution-lihkg-reddit-pincong-519ab2861793)

There are many articles and videos describing protesters’ full riot gear, but
there is not much material about their usage of cutting-edge security &
privacy-oriented technologies. In this article we will examine HK protesters’
full digital gear, which can be used by any activists around the world from
[Catalonia](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qQM2lnloBwU) to
[Chile](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O70HoaGvgF0).

## General phone security tips

There is always a trade-off between UX and privacy/security, but when your
life is at stake, you tend to value safety more than convenience.

Firstly, HK activists prepare their phones:

  * Purge **WeChat** and [all other Chinese apps](https://vpnpro.com/blog/chinese-company-secretly-behind-popular-apps-seeking-dangerous-permissions/) or at least disable audio & location permissions, and log out when apps are not in use
  * Disable **FaceID & FingerID** which an adversary can use to unlock victims’ phones without their consent
  * Set up a **SIM card** **PIN** ([iPhone](https://duckduckgo.com/?q=how+to+change+sim+pin+on+iphone), [Android](https://duckduckgo.com/?q=how+to+change+sim+pin+on+android))
  * Lock a phone with a **long and complicated PIN**
  * Delete any sensitive information from the phone (chat logs, photos, videos, browsing history, YouTube history)
  * Use [**Tor**](https://www.torproject.org/) ([Orbot](https://guardianproject.info/apps/org.torproject.android/) for Android) or a [**VPN**](https://www.privacytools.io/providers/vpn/) (ideally, paid with cryptocurrencies using [mixers](https://tornado.cash/) without any link to user’s ID, or with anonymous debit cards from grocery stores)
  * For sensitive browsing, use **Tor Browser** for Android. For casual browsing, download [**Brave**](https://brave.com/) and always use **private tabs**. Alternative: [**Firefox**](https://www.mozilla.org/firefox/) browser with privacy addons. _(Update: here is an interesting_[ _Firefox vs. Brave_](https://www.reddit.com/r/privacytoolsIO/comments/dcuir6/digital_resistance_security_privacy_tips_from/f2s0xcd/?context=8&depth=9) _discussion.)_
  * Set [**DuckDuckGo**](https://duckduckgo.com/) as a default search engine in the browser settings

 _Some hardcore activists use secondary phones just for the protests and turn
them off right after the action is over. However, these phones are also set up
according to the best security and privacy practices, otherwise they stand out
because they are linked only between members of a group._

## Apps

We will talk about different apps, but let’s start with an encrypted messaging
app Telegram, which is essential in the HK pro-democracy movement and it
experienced [powerful DDoS
attacks](https://twitter.com/telegram/status/1138768124914929664) in June
during massive Hong Kong protests.

## Telegram settings

  * Download **Telegram** app
  * Lock Telegram and other sensitive apps (messengers, gallery, notes, contacts, etc.) using “[Restrictions](https://www.lifewire.com/using-iphone-content-restrictions-2000102)” on iPhone or “App Lock” on Android
  * Hide Telegram app from the homepage with “App Lock” on Android
  * Some hardcore activists don’t allow Telegram any permissions such as Camera, Contacts, Location, Microphone, Telephone, Storage (optional, because doesn’t allow to send photos and videos from phone’s memory)

Inside Telegram:

  * Since a well-funded adversary can potentially [discover](https://www.zdnet.com/article/hong-kong-protesters-warn-of-telegram-feature-that-can-disclose-their-identities/) user’s phone number, advanced activists register a Telegram account using a **prepaid sim-card** that is not linked to user’s ID (ideally, an activation code is received on a cheap **burner phone** to avoid being identified via [IMEI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Mobile_Equipment_Identity)). Alternative: activists receive an activation code using [**burner-like apps**](https://smartphones.gadgethacks.com/how-to/we-tested-best-burner-phone-apps-for-iphone-android-heres-our-top-4-0184759/) such as Cover Me or TextMe Up. Another option is to use VoIP like [Google Voice](https://www.google.com/voice) or [MySudo](https://mysudo.com/).
  * Set up **Passcode Lock** to protect secret chats
  * Use **Two-Step Verification** to protect an account from a [SIM swap attack](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2019/08/30/jacks-twitter-attacked-phone-number-hacked/)
  * Set up a **username** to use it for exchanging contacts instead of a phone number
  * Optional: set up **Proxy** if a VPN or Tor are not used

Many activists also adjust other Privacy & Security settings for more safety:

  * Who can see my phone number? Nobody
  * Who can find me by my number? My Contacts
  * Who can see your Last Seen time? Nobody
  * Who can see my profile photo? My Contacts
  * Who can add a link to my account when forwarding my messages? Nobody
  * Who can call me? Nobody
  * Who can add me to group chats? My Contacts
  * Disable Sync Contacts
  * Disable Suggest Frequent Contacts
  * Map Preview Provider: “Telegram” or “No previews”
  * Disable Link Previews in Secret chats

 _Side note: some privacy settings don’t have “Nobody” option, so hardcore
activists choose the most secured option in the list, which is “My Contacts”,
even if they disable contacts permission._

## Telegram usage tips

When exchanging contacts, advanced activists exchange only **usernames** not
to expose the phone numbers. Side note: a username can easily be changed.

Activists use “ **secret chats** ” to enable end-to-end encryption, which is
disabled by default, and they set up a **self-destruct timer** , so all
received messages are auto-deleted after a certain amount of time.

During early stages of protests, activists often used anonymous Telegram
surveys to make collective decisions on the ground, e.g. whether to disperse
or continue the confrontation with the police.

Highly paranoid activists with disabled sync and permissions have to manually
backup all new valuable contacts and store in a safe place, because they won’t
be able to retreat those contacts if they lose the device.

Extra: activists occasionally check “Active Sessions” to make sure that a
current account is used only on one device.

 _These is a big_[ ** _list of public Telegram
channels_**](https://www.reddit.com/r/LIHKG/comments/cxq261/join%E5%AE%9Atg_channel_%E5%91%80%E5%90%84%E4%BD%8D_%E9%BA%BB%E7%85%A9copy%E5%85%A7%E5%AE%B9%E5%82%B3%E9%96%8B%E5%8E%BB/)
_that spread information about the HK pro-democracy movement._

 _Here is a quick ad from a reliable long-term sponsor, so I can continue
publishing articles without any paywall._

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*argGxGMtWZaVnWWXiyOe2g.jpeg)

Worried about your privacy? Want to safely pay for a VPN or donate to an
organization in cryptos? Keep in mind that most cryptocurrencies are
traceable, so they provide a high level of privacy only when acquired on peer-
to-peer exchanges.

This article is brought to you by a privacy-oriented peer-to-peer self-
custodial end-to-end encrypted marketplace
[**LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra), where you can buy &
sell cryptocurrencies for fiat money. To start trading, create a new password-
protected account or log in with your [**favorite
wallet**](https://blog.localcryptos.com/localethereum-integrates-with-
wallets/?ref=eimahra) such as Ledger, MetaMask, or mobile apps like imToken.

[ **LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra) is an industry
leader in peer-to-peer non-custodial trading and a long-term sponsor of
[CryptoPunks](https://medium.com/crypto-punks) blog.

## Telegram history crash course

Telegram was developed in 2013 by brothers Nicolai and [Pavel
Durov](https://twitter.com/durov), Russian entrepreneurs currently in exile
after [a confrontation with Russian
government](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pavel_Durov#Biography) over the
social media platform
[VK](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VK_\(social_network\)) regarding users’
privacy and freedom of speech. Durov brothers founded VK in 2006, but they
were later pressured to sell it and leave the company.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1150/1*aj20a4p8SXkZIpG4wAWUtQ.png)

Source: [DFRLab](/dfrlab/digitalresistance-protest-grows-in-
russia-b318b1304cc7)

The [**Digital Resistance**](/dfrlab/digitalresistance-protest-grows-in-
russia-b318b1304cc7) movement became popular in Russia in 2018 when the
government[ tried to block
Telegram](https://www.techspot.com/news/74461-russia-bans-50-vpns-proxy-
servers-effort-block.html) due to its high level of privacy and a surge of
politically-oriented pseudonymous Telegram channels critical towards the
Russian government. Authorities blocked more than 15 million IP addresses
including servers operated by Google, Amazon, Microsoft, and Digital Ocean, so
many popular websites and apps experienced outages during a few weeks of a
standoff. Telegram users, however, received push-notifications with new
network settings multiple times per day, so most people were able to use an
app without a VPN. Eventually, the Russian government gave up on trying to
block Telegram. Other authoritarian governments usually solve this issue by
[importing China’s surveillance and censorship
technologies](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/24/technology/ecuador-
surveillance-cameras-police-government.html), but for Russia, I guess, the
national security concerns are more important, so they don’t use China’s
technologies, therefore Telegram can still be accessed freely from most
Russia’s ISPs.

 _Side note: Internet in Russia is heavily censored, e.g. even_[ _LinkedIn is
blocked_](https://www.quora.com/Why-is-LinkedIn-blocked-in-Russia) _._

Since the start of the Digital Resistance movement, Telegram became very
popular in crypto space and in highly oppressed regions such as Russia, Iran,
Hong Kong, etc.

## Hong Kong Digital Resistance

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*nGbaEn3iveCEQnht_SJQKQ.jpeg)

[Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/d5bv61/chinese_gamers_are_reviewbombing_warframe_because/):
Chinese nationalists are review-bombing a Warframe game because the “Country”
settings didn’t list Taiwan and Hong Kong as a part of China

In order to confront the 50 cent army (Chinese state-sponsored trolls) and to
spread the word across the world, HK activists started massively signing up
for western social media platforms. However, openly criticizing CCP is very
dangerous, so most Hongkongers take care of their privacy using the best
practices known in the crypto space. Let’s look at those practices:

  * Use **Tor** or a [**VPN**](https://www.privacytools.io/providers/vpn/) (ideally, paid with cryptocurrencies using [mixers](https://tornado.cash/) without any link to user’s ID, or with anonymous debit cards from grocery stores)
  * Create an email address using [**privacy-oriented email providers**](https://www.privacytools.io/providers/email/) (e.g., [ProtonMail](https://protonmail.com/) or [Tutanota](https://tutanota.com/)) that will be used only for signing up for social media platforms.
  * Do not use this email address for any other communication, because the address should stay secret, so a potential adversary will have to discover an email address, password, and bypass 2FA (if set) in order to break into an account.
  * If the platform supports different 2FA options, then use two-factor authentication via TOTP (Time-Based One-Time Password) instead of authentication via SMS, because the latter one can be bypassed with a [SIM swap attack](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2019/08/30/jacks-twitter-attacked-phone-number-hacked/).
  * [Do not scan a TOTP 2FA QR code](/crypto-punks/why-you-shouldnt-scan-two-factor-authentication-qr-codes-e2a44876a524), but rather type a secret key manually into your 2FA mobile app, and don’t forget to back up the secret key.
  * After the registration process on social media platforms is complete, activists hide their email addresses from public in the account settings.
  * If the platform requires a phone number for registration, then activists use either prepaid SIM cards that are not linked to their IDs, or VoIP and [**burner-like apps**](https://smartphones.gadgethacks.com/how-to/we-tested-best-burner-phone-apps-for-iphone-android-heres-our-top-4-0184759/). Ideally, the phone number should be detached from the account after the registration is done in order to protect from a [SIM swap attack](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2019/08/30/jacks-twitter-attacked-phone-number-hacked/).
  * Activists use [**complicated passphrases**](https://www.xkcd.com/936/) that consist of multiple random words, e.g. “correct horse battery staple”, which are easier to remember but harder to break than “Carr13Lam777”.

# Other tech

## Streaming

When recording videos, activists often prefer streaming services to avoid
videos being deleted from the phone if the device was lost or confiscated.

## AirDrop

Activists often use [AirDrop](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AirDrop) service
on iPhones, which allows pseudonymous sharing of important information “on the
ground” over Wi-Fi and Bluetooth.

## FireChat or Bridgefy

In the absence of an internet connection, activists sometimes use
[FireChat](https://www.opengarden.com/firechat/) or
[Bridgefy](https://www.bridgefy.me/) messengers to chat with each other using
peer-to-peer connection via Wi-Fi and Bluetooth
([meshnet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mesh_networking)). However, Bridgefy
requires a phone number for registration.

## Private Bin

In some extreme cases activists use a [Private Bin](https://bin.disroot.org/)
service if they are afraid that the message can be intercepted. Here are some
interesting use-cases:

  * Activists create a pastebin with a “burn after read” feature enabled, encrypt it with a password, and then share a link over the suspicious communication channel. If upon opening a link, the bin has already been deleted, then the message has been intercepted by an adversary, so the communication channel is not secure. Side note: a pastebin is deleted after opening a link even if it was not decrypted with a correct password.
  * Activists share a link to a pastebin and a password for it via two different communication channels to make sure that an adversary won’t be able to access the important information even if he intercepts one of the messages.
  * When activists temporary don’t have an access to a trusted channel of communication, they encrypt a message using a pre-agreed password and set expiration time (e.g., 10 mins, 1 hour, 1 day). Then they share the link in a group, knowing that only activists with a correct password will be able to decrypt the message. For security reasons passwords are changed periodically and shared face-to-face or via a trusted channel of communication.

## Fingertrapp

Whistleblowers use [Fingertrapp](https://fingertrapp.com/) to clear English-
language docs from hidden characters that can identify an employee that leaked
the evidence. However, the app currently supports only English, Korean,
Russian, and Devanagari.

## What3Words

Advanced activists use [What3Words](https://what3words.com/) to set up a
location for a private meeting (e.g. [flock lock
photocopy](https://what3words.com/flock.lock.photocopy)), especially if they
don’t know each other and will meet for the first time. What3Words has some
advantages over other maps:

  1. You don’t need to be physically present at the spot to get the 3 words representing the precise location
  2. It’s easy to find a person if you know the exact 3x3m square he will be in
  3. It’s essentially just GPS locations but in 3 words which people can easily remember and share
  4. You don’t need GPS or internet to get the location if you have the app
  5. Don’t need to have the app to get a location if you have an internet connection (i.e. getting locations works through the [browser](https://what3words.com/)).
  6. It’s easier to hide 3 random words into any text to obfuscate the location of the meeting for a conspiracy purpose

# On-the-ground

Here are some other ways activists protect their identities during protests.

## RFID scanners

People wrap their HK IDs, subway cards or credit cards with an [aluminum
foil](https://youtu.be/32KTKXZZ-BI?t=239) (tinfoil) so adversaries can’t track
them by [remotely
scanning](https://twitter.com/Badcanto/status/1165422841937874944) the radio
frequency identification chips embedded in the cards.

## Burner phone

Ideally, protesters leave their main phones at home and use cheap burner
phones when attending events. Many hardcore protesters don’t carry any phones,
but rather communicate face-to-face or with [walkie-
talkie](https://twitter.com/Jake_Hanrahan/status/1178232902984724480).

 _Note: secondary phones are also set up according to the best security and
privacy practices, otherwise they stand out because they are linked only
between members of a group._

## Using a phone during a protest

If activists bring their phones to events, then they take extra precautions:

  * disable GPS, WiFi, Bluetooth, and mobile data
  * turn on an “airplane” mode when the Internet connection is not required
  * log out from all social media apps, so adversaries won’t get an access to activist’s accounts if they obtain and unlock his phone
  * beware of CCTV cameras when checking a phone, because cameras can capture passwords and other sensitive information such as account names, phone numbers, chat logs, etc.

## Photos

  * Take photos without unlocking a phone
  * Try not to get other protesters’ faces on the photos
  * Black out or blur faces and other identifying features of all protesters on the captured photos
  * Delete metadata from the photos (e.g., instead of sharing an original photo, take a screenshot of that photo on a phone, or send an original photo to a desktop and take a screenshot there, or use a special software/app to get rib of the metadata, and only then share the image)

## If a phone was lost

Log into social media accounts and other services from another device and
revoke all accesses for the lost device to log into these accounts.

## Umbrellas

Activists often use umbrellas not only as shields against riot-control
weapons, but also to hide their activities from cameras.

## Hide face

Protesters hide their faces with all kinds of facial masks, goggles and caps.

## Cover body

People can be identified not only with [face
recognition](https://twitter.com/Jordan_Sather_/status/1165327628825284610)
technologies, but also by specific hairstyle, hair color, shape of ears,
tattoos, piercings, freckles, unique cloths, the shoes style, etc. Thus
hardcore activists cover all body parts with simple black cloths without brand
names.

## Change clothes

If there was a specific dress-code (e.g., all black) then many activists
change clothes into something brighter before commuting home to avoid being
targeted by police or pro-government radical groups.

## Cash

Activists use cash to buy protective gear and MTR tickets when commuting to
and back from the protests. Many activists take off 1–2 stations before the
protest/home, and then walk to the protest/home.

# Conclusion

China is exporting censorship and surveillance technologies across the world,
while Hongkongers teach us how to use privacy-oriented technologies to protect
our freedoms.

“One country, two systems” principle will officially end in 2047, so many of
those who will fight for the freedom in 2047 are not even born yet. What
values that generation will carry and how much freedoms will Hongkongers have
after 3 decades? We don’t know that yet.

But what we know for sure is that Hong Kong has already reached a generation
of youth who cares less about academic and financial success, than political
freedoms and civil liberties. The new generation is young, bold, tech-savvy
and they are protesting from [early
ages](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ltG5l0gONT0).

If you want to see more candid articles about Hong Kong, crypto, security &
privacy, you can share this article, [**retweet basic privacy
tips**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software/status/1193857044392087552), or
[donate crypto](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-
activism#donate).

## More articles

[ **Read this article**](/crypto-punks/how-to-onboard-your-folks-to-
crypto-1-from-gold-to-petroyuan-de-dollarization-a3dc29201210) to learn how
the modern financial system evolved from commodity money to absolutely
unbacked fiat money, how the US dollar became the world’s dominant currency
due to the petrodollar warfare, how the aggressive US foreign policy
accelerates the de-dollarization process, how many countries (China, Russia,
Iran, Venezuela, etc.) lean towards cryptocurrencies in order to bypass US
economic sanctions, and how China expands its empire via Belt and Road
initiative, challenging the US dollar’s domination with petroyuan.

If you’re an activist, then check out an open source project [**decentralized-
activism**](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-activism), which
shares the best practices from different decentralized movements across the
globe.

  * Help inform people about privacy & security by **clapping** 50 times 👏
  * I only write quality content about privacy, security, cryptocurrencies, blockchain, and Hong Kong. Follow me or send me a direct message on [**twitter**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software) or [**mastodon**](https://mastodon.technology/@samai).
  * Use the most secure, private and intuitive way to swap cryptos with others for your local currency — [**LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra).

 _Thanks to_[ _Mattias Nystrom_](https://twitter.com/mat77ias) _for a review._

 _Disclaimer: I am not a licensed financial advisor, and this article is not a
financial advice. I don’t call for any protests, and I condemn violence. The
information presented here is for educational purpose only, it represents my
personal opinion, and is not purported to be fact. Seek a duly licensed
professional for an investment advice._

\--

1

\--

\--

1

## [More from Crypto Punks](/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
37ff9ef73129--------------------------------)

Crypto revolution has begun

[Read more from Crypto Punks](/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
37ff9ef73129--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Carlomonterds](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*_Tp_LFCrktVImNzb.jpg)](/@carlomonterds?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Carlomonterds

](/@carlomonterds?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Thank you VoskCoin for featuring PrivacySwap

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*CHER2OTjh7wposGpGaVyAQ.png)](/@carlomonterds/thank-
you-voskcoin-for-featuring-privacyswap-6927060248c6?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[[![GameZone](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*SErqMtoL7tLy_-
NIGeEltA.png)](/@Game_Zone?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[GameZone

](/@Game_Zone?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Introducing MetaVPad: The Future of the Internet Starts Here

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*1J4BUCfost-
Xhmu2)](/@Game_Zone/introducing-metavpad-the-future-of-the-internet-starts-
here-800d4b27b555?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Paldesk](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*CyQwaxkQPRwf2MQdv9aH7w.png)](/@paldesk?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Paldesk

](/@paldesk?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

## Customer Service Cyber Security Tips

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*WHucfpI2rfpTRVR5.png)](/@paldesk/customer-
service-cyber-security-tips-fd68991c9585?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![K.
Suksomboon](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*Ihf_l5JZeWUId41J.)](/@minkcoregame?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[K. Suksomboon

](/@minkcoregame?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Can you hear things’ talk? — Hacking a WiFi router

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*6iXYofyVKbslG8OAOWavmQ.jpeg)](/@minkcoregame/can-
you-hear-things-talk-hacking-a-wifi-router-
dc2eae06599?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

[[![Kryxivia
Game](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*4V1rS2vESl17ISvQFzwEpw.jpeg)](/@kryxivia?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Kryxivia Game

](/@kryxivia?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

## NFT Viewer App Launch & Alpha Release Update

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*UC3VB7ZZXB3eX11DPV4q_w.png)](/@kryxivia/nft-
viewer-app-launch-alpha-release-update-165d81df70b?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[[![Dark Dante](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*AOvXq9nE-
rsvDhC8wW7pmA.jpeg)](/@dark-dante?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[Dark Dante

](/@dark-dante?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Deathnote: 1 — Vulnhub Walkthrough

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*XH9qpdyj-
ijO8zgu.png)](/@dark-dante/deathnote-1-vulnhub-
walkthrough-3169107147c2?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Andras Marcel
Marko](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*D9_t_3HbqBuUFcgg5rsNaQ.jpeg)](/@a.marcel?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Andras Marcel Marko

](/@a.marcel?source=post_internal_links---------6----------------------------)

## GDPR — Last minute Wrap-up + Questions and Answers — Yuspify Blog

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*bvOnebRuhi7GzW_9VToY2w.jpeg)](/@a.marcel/gdpr-
last-minute-wrap-up-questions-and-answers-yuspify-
blog-40b22525bfe8?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Pepe
Berba](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*h1_3z99PkUPqi3-8LBPmNQ.png)](/@pberba?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Pepe Berba

](/@pberba?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

## DEFCON 28 OpenSOC Blue Team CTF: Lessons and Tips

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*t2ZH5XxPgnkxKOUWdVfTxQ.jpeg)](/@pberba/defcon-28-opensoc-
blue-team-ctf-lessons-and-tips-765718c12273?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----37ff9ef73129--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
37ff9ef73129--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
37ff9ef73129--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
37ff9ef73129--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
37ff9ef73129--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----37ff9ef73129--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----37ff9ef73129--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcrypto-
punks%2Fdigital-resistance-security-privacy-tips-from-hong-kong-
protesters-37ff9ef73129&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Sam
Aiken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/0*KLR9G_nzD3rK1p1w.jpg)](/@SamAI_Software)

[

## Sam Aiken

](/@SamAI_Software)

1.2K Followers

We are one big community

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F3cf7356baaf9&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcrypto-
punks%2Fdigital-resistance-security-privacy-tips-from-hong-kong-
protesters-37ff9ef73129&newsletterV3=39881a7541cc&newsletterV3Id=3cf7356baaf9&user=Sam+Aiken&userId=39881a7541cc&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![James Miller
III](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*T_bdiudOgKThnsU_1f6WjA.jpeg)](/@jamesrmilleriii?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------60566644_7206_4451_9609_e29f2adcb457-------)

[James Miller III

](/@jamesrmilleriii?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
60566644_7206_4451_9609_e29f2adcb457-------)

## Welcome! New to the blog? Start here!

](/@jamesrmilleriii/welcome-new-to-the-blog-start-
here-2d373d2a9c38?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
60566644_7206_4451_9609_e29f2adcb457-------)

[[![Duncan
Sparrell](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*vgwuUA6icnr959TUly9iCw.png)](/@sfractal?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------60566644_7206_4451_9609_e29f2adcb457-------)

[Duncan Sparrell

](/@sfractal?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
60566644_7206_4451_9609_e29f2adcb457-------)

## Optimism on the Future of Cybersecurity

![Who tellss the Emperor\(CEO\) they have no
clothes?](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*vWiqgRzWDVacWM-9d9D7CA.png)](/@sfractal/optimism-
on-the-future-of-cybersecurity-5bcc6513b8e6?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------60566644_7206_4451_9609_e29f2adcb457-------)

[[![RevBits](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dtO40L13bwsy7G6pN0We-Q.jpeg)](/@revbitsinc?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------60566644_7206_4451_9609_e29f2adcb457-------)

[RevBits

](/@revbitsinc?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
60566644_7206_4451_9609_e29f2adcb457-------)

## Council Post: Software Is Redefining Our Notion Of Hybrid

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*V3Q0cYoQIeVTWdefAAf6Tg.jpeg)](/@revbitsinc/council-
post-software-is-redefining-our-notion-of-
hybrid-9d32b1b46564?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
60566644_7206_4451_9609_e29f2adcb457-------)

[[![Mhammad](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*H7GWGwgJokdJJYvxUXKM7g.jpeg)](/@mhammad888?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------60566644_7206_4451_9609_e29f2adcb457-------)

[Mhammad

](/@mhammad888?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
60566644_7206_4451_9609_e29f2adcb457-------)

## How I cracked My CISSP without experience.

](/@mhammad888/how-i-cracked-my-cissp-without-
experience-41517dafe872?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
60566644_7206_4451_9609_e29f2adcb457-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

