[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![Distributed Organisations for Collaborative
Research](/static/e694befa3772cb212007d2a2cb9149a5/2a43b/VIENNA.jpg)

[Research](/blog/category/research/)

## Distributed Organisations for Collaborative Research

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

·

March 01, 2019

The Web was created as a coordination and cooperation tool for scientists.
Subsequently, it had a revolutionary impact on almost all aspects of our life
today. Surprisingly, the rise of a [“network
society"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_society) did in the end have
little effects on the forms of organizing among the scientific community. Its
paradigm of scientific communication and cooperation dates back to the early
[17th century](https://libraryconnect.elsevier.com/articles/what-does-non-
solus-mean-elseviers-logo).

This essay is based on a
[lecture](https://zenodo.org/record/2578025#.XHeX55NKjOQ) held during the
“Future of Science” session of the [Marie Curie Alumni
Association’s](https://www.mariecuriealumni.eu/) annual conference at the
University of Vienna in February 2019. It highlights the historical roots of
today’s challenges in science in scholarly communication, and how open access
movements have begun to address this problem.

It also proposes how distributed Web technologies (such as
[IPFS](https://ipfs.io/) and [Ethereum](https://www.ethereum.org/)) are poised
to enable an entirely new way of communication and cooperation among
scientists and citizens. This may lead to the long-sought cultural change
within the scientific community, which may finally furnish us with the tools
required to tackle the world’s most pressing challenges.

[ ![WEB INSCRIPTION](/static/dd8d5aecd1a04ac13fd03c6f1ef538d8/1c72d/WEB-
INSCRIPTION.jpg) ](/static/dd8d5aecd1a04ac13fd03c6f1ef538d8/2ceaa/WEB-
INSCRIPTION.jpg) _Inscription at CERN in front of the former office of Sir Tim
Berners-Lee. Photographed during a visit in February 2019._

## The Web for Scientists? - Does not yet exist!

In his initial proposal Tim Berners-Lee envisaged the Web as a tool to enable
improved communication through "computer conferencing”. At
[CERN](https://home.cern/), the world’s largest particle physics laboratory
near Geneva, Switzerland, the [“Information Management system based on a
distributed hypertext system”](https://www.w3.org/History/1989/proposal.html)
was intended to help improve the coordination and operation of the site’s
complex research projects.

The Web, like the Internet, was rapidly adopted by academia, but they have yet
to reach their true potential for science. This shortfall is firstly rooted in
the strong inter-dependency between scholars, publishers and funders. Secondly
the Web has lacked to this date ways that guarantee third-party, independent
attribution, self-sovereign identity, and the ability for the transfer of
value. Network effects consequently have made third parties such as publishers
remain and even grow stronger in their influence given they could maintain to
provide such services.

The latin inscription “non solus” (latin, “not alone”) of the dutch publisher
Elsevier introduced in the 16th century remains even more true today: The
requirement by funding agencies, especially since the 1960s to introduce
objective performance metrics for scientific output has created a complex
dependency among scholars, publishers and the public institutions that are
funding most research.

Today this leads to a gridlock for collaboration and hampers scientific
efforts to grow beyond small scaled structures. However problems of increasing
complexity call for advanced technologies to allow coordination and scaling of
scientific organising.

[ ![NON SOLUS](/static/e8c52df91eb04606fd934557bcbcdb6f/fcda8/NON-SOLUS.png)
](/static/e8c52df91eb04606fd934557bcbcdb6f/2cb21/NON-SOLUS.png) _The triangle
of money - and dependencies in science._

## The emergence of “team science”

Notable exceptions to small scaled efforts in science are areas where funding
constraints such as in astronomy, space exploration, and experimental physics
“force” the scientific community to work closer together. It is unfortunate
and surprising that we do not yet find massive, globally acting consortia that
for instance aim to approach the search for cures of cancer in an open and
collaborative way. There is not a single accepted reliable resource existing
for cutting edge updates of research on specific types of cancer, for
instance. Even if divergent in approaches and opinions, such common resources
I believe could and should have already emerged on the Web.

[ ![CERN](/static/08f0b0423e5d5bdefefd0bfaa144180d/1c72d/CERN.jpg)
](/static/08f0b0423e5d5bdefefd0bfaa144180d/d9c39/CERN.jpg) _The former Low
Energy Antiproton Ring at CERN. Experimental Physics is one of the fields in
science that has a long tradition of collective collaborative scientific
activities._

Instead we find that scientific fields remain “united in fragmentation”
organizing their research efforts in mostly independent, small scale teams
that risk to reinvent the wheel for the lack of an efficient and state-of the
art means of coordination. In countless university hospitals around the world
comparably small laboratories are tackling almost the same challenging
problems but can share results only with delay and may sometimes even feel
tempted to keep essential details on a method secret for exploitation on
patents or to publish yet another paper. Notably a large industry of suppliers
and service companies has evolved to tap into this publicly funded chaos and
have little interest to change this situation. Thus, especially in the
academic "kingdoms" still striving in European universities millions of Euros
worth of redundant equipment catches dust.

I argue this is both an organizational as well as cultural phenomenon and
persists because of the competition for original work demanded by journals,
the funders’ requirement for provable impact and a wrong concept of
"intellectual property". Further, especially early career scientists did not
aim to produce papers, but to make discoveries that may change the world.
Those that remain in the system have often forgotten the latter and are very
proficient in the first.

Notable exceptions are the emergence of research institutes such as the [Allen
Institutes](https://alleninstitute.org/). Here team-science is celebrated and
dedicated, collaborative teams are tackling specific, well defined problems in
interdisciplinary teams. It is undoubtedly important to permit scientists to
independently choose their area of research and allow also solitary and
independent work. However I believe team-science will rapidly outpace many
traditional laboratory setups that remain to operate in a haphazard fashion on
hierarchical and feudalistic organisational paradigms.

In the future such team-science may be manageable through distributed
organisations as described below enabling to harness a much larger number of
minds contributing to a specific scientific challenge, thus permitting each
individual to work on a problem he feels most suited to, independently of
where she is located on the planet.

Blame for the current situation does not lie solely with the publishers, it is
also the trained nature of the scientists' operational and cultural norms it
selects for. I strongly advocate for a cultural as much as for a technological
revolution. Crypto-networking technologies, as I will highlight in the next
part, can do things the Web has been unable to do for us to date, allowing us
to move beyond the traditional paper and also enabling new ways of attribution
and thus collaboration and funding of science.

## From “Denkkollektiv” (thought collective) to Collective Intelligence

Scientific data and knowledge are [“anti-
rival"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-rival_good) goods, thus according
to the definition of [Lawrence
Lessing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lawrence_Lessing) and [Steven
Weber](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steven_Weber_\(professor\)) the “free
dissemination increases their value and exceeds the profit gained by few
through copyright or IP”. By imposing artificial limitations today scientific
output is often turned into rival goods. Publishers do so in three ways: By
restricting the amount of space granted for publication, by charging
publishing fees, and restricting access through fees in many cases still. This
locks out a large number of people from contributing and benefiting from the
body of scientific knowledge created every day in our publicly-funded research
institutes.

When scientists search for a solution to a long-standing question shouldn’t
they be able to communicate their most recent breakthroughs in a direct and
rapid fashion? Shouldn’t they be able to approach fellow scientists or be
perhaps pointed to a matching collaboration partner that already found a
solution that could advance their own efforts? I would argue that for several
pressing challenges it is a moral necessity to share information and cooperate
as effectively as possible.

The science theorist and physician [Ludwig
Fleck](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ludwik_Fleck) described in his seminal
work “Entstehung und Entwicklung einer wissenschaftlichen Tatsache” (Genesis
and development of a scientific fact) that scientific research is collective
work, not a formal construct, but strongly dependent on the context within
scientific communities. As such “thought collectives” change scientific ideas
over time. Scientists need to be in constant communication, which was
highlighted by Michael Polanyi in his 1962 [essay](https://mitpress-
request.mit.edu/sites/default/files/titles/content/9780262690201_sch_0001.pdf)
“The Republic of Science”: “Activities of scientists are coordinated and rely
on constant communication. Adjustment […] occurs in response to the results
obtained by others.“

Today we define the ability of a group of people to extend their individual
capabilities through cooperation and to reach a consensus on a certain task
that can be more complex than the sum of the individual’s contributions as
[collective
intelligence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collective_intelligence). The Web
has greatly facilitated the emergence of such processes of collective
intelligence as it in principle permits effective “ad-hoc” communication
through computer networks in real time and at a global scale and at minimal
cost. We are now able to organize ourselves much more rapidly and effectively
and coordinate the contribution to an intellectual challenge from anywhere in
the world.

As [Manuel Castells](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Manuel_Castells) points out
[“new information technologies are not simply tools to be applied, but
processes to be developed”](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=518096). 30
years after the Web’s creation we face both a crisis in the prevalent “social”
Web as much as we do in the “Web for science”. To evolve towards the "pool of
information to develop which could grow and evolve”, as proposed by Tim
Berners-Lee, we need to introduce the technological improvements the
distributed Web offers, such as the ability of creating decentralized
identifiers ([DIDs](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/did-spec/)) and to prove
ownership through cryptographic signatures.

[
![Collaborate](/static/4cd2a728fc1db817d5fceb8e3d4b9885/1c72d/Collaborate.jpg)
](/static/4cd2a728fc1db817d5fceb8e3d4b9885/d2602/Collaborate.jpg) _Motto of
Idea Square at CERN._

## Building the new home of science: Self-sovereign publishing

The recent advent of blockchain technology has solved first the double-
spending problem, Bitcoin’s fundamental achievement. Now cryptocurrencies
enable direct, peer-to-peer transactions. Notably, such “value” need not be
monetary or “fungible” value. It’s not just banks as intermediaries that are
threatened. This same technology allows us to “own” a cryptographically
provable “address,” a form of proto-identity of ourselves on the Web that
allows us to claim ownership and create transactions - also transactions of
“knowledge.” This presents the birth of a self-sovereign and collective
publishing medium.

Distributed ledger technologies and peer-to-peer file storage networks such as
IPFS permit to create an immediate, permanent publication of any of our
results and ensure direct attribution of the work. The stored data, timestamps
and ID information is largely interoperable on the distributed Web, and we can
create binding agreements that will execute as enforced in “smart contracts”,
given previously defined conditions are met. This is largely reducing the
administrative overhead and requirement for institutional intermediaries. It
may be possible to create “peer-to-peer” fund allocations among individual
scientists. We could for instance release a grant payment according to
previously defined conditions or incentivise the creation of a prototype for
which, following the proof of functional implementation funds are released.

In his work on the "Economy of Insight", the cyberneticist Paul Pangaro has
formulated - [“Conversations as Transactions”](http://pangaro.com/futurecom/),
that is “wealth creation has shifted from prior knowledge to the ability to
gain knowledge-in-action.” Previously we needed competition to identify "the
best" solution for a problem, while perhaps a combination of several other
proposals would have created the optimal outcome for a given problem.
"Knowledge" transactions now enable the emergence of distributed teams to work
more effectively focusing on best solutions and not the "winning" one.

In 2017, [Dr. Sebastian Bürgel](https://github.com/SCBuergel) at the
[Department of Biosystems Engineering](https://www.bsse.ethz.ch/) of [ETH
Zurich](https://www.ethz.ch/en.html) and myself performed a proof of concept
experiment in which we used some microscopy data I obtained and analysed in my
laboratory. We broadcast them in IPFS and stored the created IPFS hashes of
this work through an Ethereum blockchain transaction to obtain a timestamp and
attribution.

[ ![KNOWLEDGE
TRANSACTIONS](/static/e3cc58207648752ac0982b7bf1d918f4/fcda8/KNOWLEDGE-
TRANSACTIONS.png) ](/static/e3cc58207648752ac0982b7bf1d918f4/a628a/KNOWLEDGE-
TRANSACTIONS.png) _Raw data, Analysis scripts and interpretation of a
scientific experiment can be made immutable, attributable and shareable._

A few months later I discovered that AKASHA has been using the very same
components, Ethereum and IPFS, to create a much more advanced and elaborate
self-sovereign, censorship-resistant “social media” publishing platform, since
2015. It is this fundamental new technology that I believe will revolutionise
the entire 300+ years old approach of creating and sharing knowledge.

[ ![HISTORIC POST](/static/ce684da7be3a5a0e4f8e7b2927466c1e/fcda8/HISTORIC-
POST.png) ](/static/ce684da7be3a5a0e4f8e7b2927466c1e/2dc7d/HISTORIC-POST.png)
_One of my first posts in the #SCIENCE section of AKASHA._

Self-sovereign publishing will enable what [Polanyi](https://mitpress-
request.mit.edu/sites/default/files/titles/content/9780262690201_sch_0001.pdf)
proposed when he said that “The pursuit of science by independent, self-
coordinated initiatives assures the most efficient possible organization of
scientific progress.”

Scientific publishers and universities have coordinated these processes for
some centuries, but we are now able to hand these authorities back to the
individual scientists. This does not invalidate the operational status of a
university, nor of a publisher. Both will likely be able to reform themselves,
but it will change the way we interact with each other and the value they will
deliver or the public can actually demand from them.

## From journals to distributed autonomous organisations (DAOs), token curated
registries (TCRs) & bonding curves

Distributed ledger technologies may be helping to democratise access to
science and also making science funding, communication and translation more
efficient. However to date it is not clear, which economic models currently
explored may persist, many applications are only “games”. But this should not
diminish their potential future impact, for [“Play made the Modern
World”](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hLltkC-G5dY).

In the early days ( 2016/17) “initial coin offerings” (ICOs) as means of
crowdfunding research and peer-review of scientific projects have been
[proposed](https://zenodo.org/record/401369#.XHe0UZNKjOQ) and implemented, for
instance through the [Mindfire Foundation](https://mindfire.global/) or
crowdfunding the sequencing of the [Cannabis
DNA](https://www.medicinalgenomics.com/blockchained-cannabis-dna/).

We may need to understand science funding, communication and governance in a
single complex though, through which very promising, new types organizations
may be formed.

For instance, scientific journals are nothing else than curated lists of
content. This is well known in a field of crypto-economics that aims to
embrace content curation through so called token curated registries (TCRs)
[further reading](https://medium.com/@tokencuratedregistry/the-token-curated-
registry-whitepaper-bd2fb29299d6).

Based on a universal “Open Access Datastream” through which all scientific
data produced is accessible (proposed
[here](https://zenodo.org/record/2579843#.XHfL0pNKjGI) and also by several
authors in this [living
document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Djq16UP2MCD40ZO8Ma4DL3WfmBA9ErtqNkOTt80Ahgw/edit))
diligently curated list of new, field specific scientific content could easily
be compiled and subscribed to, like the good old mailing lists did in the
early days of the Web, or like RSS feeds. Good curators may gain large numbers
of followers and reputation. Scientific associations, laboratories etc., could
all publish their own curated lists that potentially overlap and are of
different stringency and depending on their origin, trustworthiness. Given we
can obtain additional metrics on each scientific work, such as the number of
times is was accessed, downloaded, cited or even better reproduced, this could
allow us to create increasingly reliable lists of state of the art knowledge
in a specific field. Individuals could choose to compile their own set of
filter or become subscribers and compare different outlets created from the
common, open data stream.

[ ![CRYTO GAMES FOR
SCIENCE](/static/944a03d954652ac7e0b58643ebe8fd48/fcda8/CRYTO_GAMES-FOR-
SCIENCE.png) ](/static/944a03d954652ac7e0b58643ebe8fd48/2cb21/CRYTO_GAMES-FOR-
SCIENCE.png) _Let the crypto games for Science begin!_

Platforms like [AKASHA](https://beta.akasha.world/) or [Science
Matters](https://www.sciencematters.io/) that provide a means for self-
sovereign publication may be used to publish, add comments or add new or
diverging results to the growing body of truly peer-to-peer created scientific
knowledge. Any addition, even a small “micro-contribution” may be valuable for
the discovery process. Such information is today often lost and both good
ideas as well as reports on failed experiments are not communicated. While
this sounds at first overwhelming [Michael
Nielsen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Nielsen) points out several
collaborative projects in his book "Reinventing Discovery" that already
achieved with little effort and a classical Web 2.0 approach surprising
results on collaborative research. One example being Timothy Gower’s [Polymath
blog](https://polymathprojects.org/) that to this date remains to be a simple
WordPress-based blog. Anyone can make a proposal for a mathematical problem in
there and numerous such problems have been resolved to this date in a
collaborative fashion.

Efficient new funding mechanisms, combined with a trusted communication system
that allows new ways to attribute and curate content may ultimately form
entirely new types of scientific organizations. Scientific distributed
autonomous organisations (Science DAOs), proposed first by [Soenke
Bartling](https://zenodo.org/record/1196756#.XHfm55NKjGI) may emerge. These
types of organisations will likely form around a specific scientific challenge
and facilitate the coordination among scholars and the public. Private and
governmental funders as well as individuals may invest in “Science DAOs” and
foster the creation of massive research collaborations that can scale
globally. These massive research organizations may not be operated by a single
hierarchical administrative layer, but through a distributed network of
financial and intellectual contributors.

[Token curated registries](https://medium.com/linum-labs/curation-market-
communities-fc0562015609) and [token bonding
functions](https://github.com/C-ORG) may be to date the most recent and
promising tools to explore to organise and fund such new types of
organizations, though much research remains to be undertaken here.

## Conclusion

The introduction of self-sovereign and collaboration tools for science will
largely remove third parties and hand more agency as well as responsibility
back to the individual researcher. Aspiring scientists do not dream of simply
writing papers when they begin their career, they dream of making world-
changing discoveries and for this they should be rightfully recognised. On the
other hand the increasing complexity of the scientific problems at hand call
for improved cooperation. If implemented well, we may now be able to create
new, globally-acting research organizations that can take on long-standing
global challenges. We may also find that this will create a new generation of
leaders in academia that embrace collaboration instead of mindless
competition, are truly passionate not for their next “paper,” but are
contributing to grow our knowledge by knowing how to [“tame the fears of their
ego”](http://www.reinventingorganizations.com/) by sharing information and
resources in a more rapid and comprehensive way that is required to accelerate
the pace of innovation.

[ ![POLANIY](/static/5cea3c787a42fbf93ebde8ea2682e7b8/fcda8/POLANIY.png)
](/static/5cea3c787a42fbf93ebde8ea2682e7b8/5b2ff/POLANIY.png)

Acknowledgements: I would like to thank my colleague [Philip
Sheldrake](https://akasha.org/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/) for critical
reading and helpful comments on this manuscript. The insights presented here
have been incubated during numerous discussions within the [AKASHA
Foundation's](https://akasha.org/) research team. I also thank [Soenke
Bartling](https://www.blockchainforscience.com/) founder of the Blockchain for
Science think tank, Lambert Heller from the [TIB Open Science
Lab](https://www.tib.eu/de/forschung-entwicklung/open-science/), [Prof. Stefan
Krauss](https://www.med.uio.no/imb/personer/vit/stefankr/) and Gotthold
Fläschner for the continuous helpful discussions on the topic.

_Cite as: Etzrodt, M. (2019). Distributed Organisations for Collaborative
Research. AKASHA
Foundation.[10.5281/zenodo.2581358](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.2581358)_

[Research](/blog/category/research/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2019/03/01/collaborative-
research)

