[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![Diving Into the Oceans of Time: Metamorphosis Part
II](/static/1168d4df4516a61ab04c3989ac9e8096/2a43b/hero.jpg)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

[Community](/blog/category/community/)

[Research](/blog/category/research/)

## Diving Into the Oceans of Time: Metamorphosis Part II

By [Mihai Alisie](/blog/author/mihai-alisie/)

·

May 03, 2019

The question “ **why** would someone use AKASHA?” has been asked _many_ times,
both inside and outside of the Foundation. Some of our earliest answers
include things like: “decentralization,” “censorship resistance,” and “freedom
of expression.”

We felt that these answers were good enough to justify years of active
development and continuous experimentation with new, yet almost arcane
technologies that most of the time **_do not_** behave as expected.

But these answers, among many other things, shine a light on our early
understanding of how technologies like Ethereum and IPFS can be translated
into a real application empowering people.

**To put things into perspective, we 've been compared many times to today's
social media platforms but our intention was never to become “the new
Facebook,” “the new Twitter,” or the new “X.”**

**Our intention was, and remains, to create something simple to use but
meaningful in the way it works - proving in the process that “there’s a better
way now” to tackle BIG problems, even if sometimes they seem almost
“impossible to solve.”**

This is how we started thinking about blockchain technology in the context of
our freedom of expression as individuals, since individual self-expression is
critical to maintaining a healthy balance in modern societies.

But, as we’ll see in this article, there is another side to the problem of
freedom of expression, often ignored and/or suppressed - namely **our ability
to come together as one and express ourselves as a collective.**

Partly, this is caused by the tools and social media networks we use today to
connect with each other. Most of today’s “social apps” are poorly designed for
this dimension of our humanness and optimize mainly for advertising revenue.

Also, we are not always conscious or aware of the “collectives” we’re part of.
But acting together in collectives is something we are equipped by nature to
do very well as social creatures - by design. **It is something natural for
us, humans.**

We certainly become conscious of our “collective identities” when it matters -
such as when our continuing to be together comes into question, or when
decisions have to be made concerning our way of living together.

But how can we do well something that we don’t know we’re doing?

`¯\_(ツ)_/¯`

### The Dark Side of The Cloud: Collected Intelligence (and Time)

[ ![1](/static/dcb38bcc8d740c34c7dd6d0daebbaa17/1c72d/1.jpg)
](/static/dcb38bcc8d740c34c7dd6d0daebbaa17/418a7/1.jpg)

> There are risks and costs to action. But they are far less than the long
> range risks of comfortable inaction. - John F. Kennedy

When talking about “Collected Intelligence” and “Collected Time,” it is
important to keep in mind that no matter how friendly, colorful or cute they
are in presentation, **the current social networking apps are** [**designed to
exploit**](https://captology.stanford.edu/) **our human social traits.**

And, to make things even worse, **these** [**persuasion
machines**](https://medium.com/intuitionmachine/persuasive-machines-weapons-
of-mass-disinformation-a53787c12dbc) **are presented as friendly tools of mass
information when they are increasingly becoming weapons of mass surveillance
and disinformation.**

As a result, we are living in an information-based society plagued with
digital echo chambers, fake news, and a general state of uncertainty powered
by black box algorithms deciding the ads you should see alongside your "news
feed" (as in the news _they_ feed you?) - [manipulating your inner emotional
states in the process.](https://slate.com/technology/2014/06/facebook-
unethical-experiment-it-made-news-feeds-happier-or-sadder-to-manipulate-
peoples-emotions.html)

“Facebook” as a word means “social media,” “social network,” or even “the
Internet” to [many people](https://qz.com/333313/milliions-of-facebook-users-
have-no-idea-theyre-using-the-internet/). Moreover, initiatives like “[
**Internet**.org](https://info.internet.org/en/)” add to the confusion. Some
might say that this is by design.

During our first experiments in the field, we found ourselves many times in a
position where people, after hearing that we’re building a “decentralized
social media network,” would ask something like “ _Ah, I get it! So you’re
building like a new Facebook?_ ”

This would then push us into a discussion on how “this should NOT be seen as a
Facebook” and “this is different because.” We’ve thought many times on how to
best explain the difference since people involuntarily place us in this box,
more often than we’d like.

**So here goes, in anticipation of this conversation.**

By the end of this article, it is my hope that you will be able to make the
difference between AKASHA, Facebook, and other ad-driven social media apps
through a simple question making it easy to evaluate “free” Web 2.0 services
on your own.

And in the process, maybe even more importantly, you might become more aware
of how much potential already exists within us when coming together as one -
both online and offline.

![](https://static.slab.com/prod/uploads/posts/images/MdUJ_l30sP7wsrXgDISk2jPP.jpeg)
[Source](https://wearesocial.com/blog/2019/04/the-state-of-digital-in-
april-2019-all-the-numbers-you-need-to-know)

In the past we tried to approach this discussion from the perspective of
privacy, personal data, security, censorship, and so on. We felt this made
sense as the majority of people are at least “concerned” about how personal
data is used by companies.

Today, we’re going to take another route, but do not forget that even if we
are talking about other things than the privacy, censorship, and personal data
ramifications, these problems are still “there”. Unfortunately.

### Facebook and the Untold Problem of Collected Time Sinks

![](https://static.slab.com/prod/uploads/posts/images/jl4cspj-
PTW-Y0iZla7NhC0J.jpeg)

> "A frustration I have is that a lot of people increasingly seem to equate an
> advertising business model with somehow being out of alignment with your
> customers. I think it's the most ridiculous concept." \- [Mark
> Zuckerberg](https://time.com/facebook-world-plan/)

Firstly, it’s important to **understand better “why” Facebook exists, the idea
it is driven by and “what” it actually is - beyond emojis, reactions, and**
[**duck faces**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duck_face).

Here is a short segment from an interview with [Sean
Parker](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sean_Parker), **the Founding President
of Facebook;** I’d like to draw your attention to this part:

> “(...) **the thought process that went into building these applications,
> Facebook being the first** **of them to really understand it** (...) **was
> all about how do we consume as much of your time and conscious attention as
> possible?** (...)”

This quote highlights the core problem(s) we have as a _social species_ when
it comes to the things they _optimize_ for - at our own cost.

Now, let’s take a look at how well Facebook has answered this question:

**“ _How do we consume_ _as much of your time and conscious attention as
possible_?”**

  * There are currently over 2.3 billion **active** monthly [Facebook users](https://s21.q4cdn.com/399680738/files/doc_financials/2019/Q1/Q1-2019-Earnings-Presentation.pdf)
  * From these people, 1.56 billion are active **daily.** We use a conservative average of ~24 mins/day (based on [these](https://www.clearvoice.com/blog/time-spent-on-social-media-plateauing-emarketer-report/) numbers for the US).
  * Now let's calculate how much time Facebook **consumes** from all these people

24 minutes * 1,562,000,000 people = 37,488,000,000 total minutes

Let's do some math to reach a number easier to understand and with less zeros.

Since there are 1,440 minutes in a day, we will multiply this number by the
number of days in a common year calendar to find out the total number of
minutes in a year.

I.e. 1,440 x 365 = 525,600 minutes in a common year calendar.

**Now that we know how many minutes there are in a year, let 's see how much
time Facebook consumes from all these people - converting this now to years:**

37,488,000,000 total minutes / 525,600 minutes in a year = **71,324.2 total
years**

Sadly, that’s not an error... the result is actually **OVER 71 THOUSAND
YEARS.**

To better understand the magnitude of the problem, **such a vast period of
time would fit the entire history of Homo sapiens from the** [**Upper
Palaeolithic**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_human_prehistory#Upper_Paleolithic)
(70,000-12,000 years ago), the
[Holocene](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_human_prehistory#Holocene)
(12,000-2,200 years ago) encompassing [Bronze, Iron
Age](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_ancient_history#Bronze_Age_and_Early_Iron_Age)
(3,200 BC - 700 BC) and [Classical
Antiquity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_ancient_history#Classical_antiquity)
(700 BC - 400 AD) until modern times.

![](https://static.slab.com/prod/uploads/posts/images/mz2XuACEqUJsAvc3psiQfUl9.jpg)

_Illustration_ [_source
here_](http://www.proistoria.org/assets/galleries/193/mammoth-hunt-upper-
paleolithic-in-the-swamp-zdenek-burian.jpg) _\- by Zdenek Burian_

**If you 're shaking your head in disbelief, we invite you to verify the
numbers yourself.**

Go ahead, please verify the numbers yourself. We'll wait for you.

.

..

...

Now that we have this **fact** clarified, here comes the kicker:

**Facebook _consumes_ over 71,324 years from the lives of all these people.**

**_Every_. _Single_. _DAY_.**

[ ![2](/static/272bfa565b60117fbc1cde4b4bc7783c/1c72d/2.jpg)
](/static/272bfa565b60117fbc1cde4b4bc7783c/418a7/2.jpg)

And as if that was not crazy enough, when calculating how much time Facebook
consumes from our lives **yearly** , the result is even more outrageous:

71,324.2 years * 365 days = 26,033,333 total years consumed every year.

For those wondering, that's not a typo....the result is actually **over 26
MILLION YEARS siphoned by Facebook EVERY SINGLE YEAR from the lives of the
people caught in its dark cloud.**

**And we can expect this only to become worse, day by day.** As an example,
here is a chart indicating how the time consumed daily **_by Facebook alone_**
has kept growing steadily in the past years:

![](https://static.slab.com/prod/uploads/posts/images/vaeFmAconRZWBTJh5fZ1DMOg.png)

For those curious on what our sources were for these calculations, they can be
found [here](https://www.emarketer.com/Article/Time-Spent-with-Facebook-Still-
Growing-Not-by-Much/1013903) and
[here](https://www.statista.com/statistics/346167/facebook-global-dau/). We
invite you to verify the numbers and share this information with all your
friends, because we feel that not enough people are aware of **how _BAD_
things actually are**.

Without even realizing, humanity has had over 70 thousand years of its
collective life and attention stolen by Facebook alone. Every. Single. Day.
That means over 26 million years siphoned per year from our collective ocean
of time.

And as if that’s not bad enough, this calculation does not even take into
account Instagram, WhatsApp, YouTube, Twitter...

![](https://static.slab.com/prod/uploads/posts/images/uxTYoWzrB4RtCZ8CVLKm1RD5.jpg)

[Source](https://wearesocial.com/blog/2019/04/the-state-of-digital-in-
april-2019-all-the-numbers-you-need-to-know)

Facebook is just one - albeit the largest - of such applications **designed to
consume as much of our time as possible as a global species** \- portraying
the sad present and dark future of humans living in the world of Collected
Intelligence _and_ Time.

A world designed to manipulate every user through gentle pushes constantly
exploiting our feelings and, maybe even more dangerously, **continuously
(re)shaping our state(s) of mind.**

But it’s not too late to make a change.

As of now, **only half of the planet is engulfed by this dark web feeding off
our collective ocean of time and attention. The battle for** [**a better home
of Mind**](https://www.eff.org/cyberspace-independence) **is not lost until
the entire planet is completely covered by this dangerous, ominous, cloud**.

We still have a chance. For now.

### From Collected to Collective Intelligence, Time and Action

[ ![3](/static/04ac153df02ea1613ae2f73923388297/1c72d/3.jpg)
](/static/04ac153df02ea1613ae2f73923388297/418a7/3.jpg)

> "I updated my grilling app, iGrill, today and it now has Facebook
> integration that lets you see what other people are grilling right now
> around the world. Awesome." \- [Mark
> Zuckerberg](https://www.businessinsider.com/mark-zuckerberg-likes-the-
> igrill-2012-8)

Motivations aside, the Web and its social networking apps have brought humans
“superpowers,” enabling us to transcend space and time, similar to a digital
nervous system interconnecting us on a planetary scale.

Whereas the main “superpowers” we unlocked as a species during the Web2 wave
revolved mainly around individual self-expression with “user-generated
content,” “discussion” and “reactions” on various topics, **we tend to believe
that the next wave of popular social networking apps will expand our actions
and interactions beyond just comments and likes.**

While it is not quite clear what the next wave of blockchain-enabled social
networking apps will bring, we do have some examples that can help us make
educated guesses. With the risk of looking back to this post in a few years
and feeling amused by these predictions, let’s try to paint a picture of what
the future might bring.

[ ![4](/static/7bbec6c57fb87439e18bf5604ff2c9ed/1c72d/4.jpg)
](/static/7bbec6c57fb87439e18bf5604ff2c9ed/418a7/4.jpg)

To start, let’s list some of the new “superpowers” blockchain brought us:

  * Censorship-resistant freedom of transaction (cryptocurrencies) 
  * Censorship-resistant freedom of expression (decentralized publishing platforms)
  * New forms of organizing & collaborating at scale (DAOs, DOs, etc)
  * New forms of decision making (decentralized governance systems)
  * New forms of “value” (ERC 20, ERC 721, etc)
  * Many other things that we probably haven’t discovered yet?

Now, let’s do some futurescaping with this in mind.

How will these new superpowers transform our interactions?

How can these puzzle pieces fit together when taking into consideration both
our individual **_and_** collective abilities to organize and express
ourselves?

We cannot know for sure but, this time, I tend to believe that by combining
these puzzle pieces, collective (and intelligent) self expression can become
"a killer app" just like individual self expression became the "killer app" of
the Web2 social networking apps wave.

Thanks to these new puzzle pieces, people will be able to do more than
“discuss”, “like” or “react” to various topics **as observers of our world
reality** (while being observed, analyzed, and monetized).

This time, people will also gain the ability to organize, crowdfund and
coordinate collective action **as co-creators of our world reality** (by using
the tool, not being used by the tool).

[ ![5](/static/61f8b97c4445f48c9fe0dd7d67ea3eea/1c72d/5.jpg)
](/static/61f8b97c4445f48c9fe0dd7d67ea3eea/418a7/5.jpg)

When reconsidering the initial question of “why” would someone use the AKASHA
dapp, the new answers point to a future where individuals and organizations
can exchange more than just “upvotes” or “likes.”

In fact, it is **already possible** to exchange “value” in so many new forms
and shapes on blockchains - from cryptocurrencies to crypto kitties. With this
in mind, it should be possible to go beyond just “talking about stuff” and
“actually doing something about it” in completely new ways.

Self-sustaining communities, research crowdfunding with stable currencies,
open-source software & hardware, activism crowdsourcing, and purposeful
collective actions are within reach.

**So far, blockchain social networks brought discussions and reactions on
blockchain(s) with the "innovation" part revolving mostly around adding a
cryptocurrency and an incentive scheme into the mix - with the incentives
usually aiming to incentivize users to generate content on the platform(s).
Yet another type of “Collected Time Sink”, where you get ✨tokens✨ for your
collected time.**

**We 've been there, just to ask ourselves "is _this_ it!?" 🤔**

What if we take a more expansive view of our human nature, one that aims to
enhance rather than replace real world interactions? What if we ponder our
humanness as something including both individual **_and_** collective self-
expression, digital **_and_** physical reality, mind **_and_** action?

In a moment of inspiration, someone might ask:

What if we can build something better with the new superpowers we unlocked as
an information society? What if we can co-create something enriching our
collective time and existence instead of consuming it for profit?

**What if we build something designed to enhance our natural ability to come
together as one - but this time not around a “common enemy,” but instead for
the “common good?”**

### **AKASHA.world: Designing for Oceans of Collective Intelligence and Time**

[ ![6](/static/54811ac1db16bed069d70e522d01e675/1c72d/6.jpg)
](/static/54811ac1db16bed069d70e522d01e675/73831/6.jpg)

> "The present was an egg laid by the past that had the future inside its
> shell." \- Zora Neale Hursto

The nature of “time” is something we rarely contemplate throughout the day. We
are used to look at a clock and interpret the hour shown in relation to our
own individual perception of time - i.e. “it’s 3:30 PM, just 30 mins more and
I’m done with work.”

The generally accepted individual perspective is that there are 24 hours in a
day, time being the same for everyone living on this planet - of course with
the exception of a few time zone differences, here and there.

However, looking at time **_only_** from the individual perspective hides our
own power as individuals part of “humanity” - a social species inhabiting this
planet with a population approaching 8 billion individuals. 🌍 🌎 🌏

Another way to look at time would be from the perspective of collectives. For
the sake of simplicity, let’s call this “collective time measuring.”

From the perspective of “collective time measuring,” a day on planet Earth
does not equal 24 hours. Each person has 24 hours of individual time every day
but when becoming part of a network of relations, the time is measured by
multiplying it with the number of nodes experiencing their own unique flow of
time.

In other words, **a day on planet Earth measured through the combined
perspective of the 7.7 billion people currently inhabiting it, would equal
over 21 million years in collective time - every 24 hours**.

As a more tangible example, this is how the “Internet ocean of time” would
look like if we would envision the current population using the Internet:

![](https://static.slab.com/prod/uploads/posts/images/dlcfDAb_oIeWWMRO8bt5IPHo.png)

[Source](https://wearesocial.com/blog/2019/04/the-state-of-digital-in-
april-2019-all-the-numbers-you-need-to-know)

Now, you might ask yourself **" why does Facebook et al. want to consume so
much time from our lives?"** and **" what is Facebook et al. actually doing
with all our attention and time?"**

Or even better **" what could each of us individually do and what could we all
do together, if we used only a tiny slice of this time in different way?"**

If we take even a tiny slice of individual time spent online and multiply it
by 4.437 billion people, the resulting oceans of collective time are still
incredible:

  * 1 second * 4.437 billion people = ~ **140.7 collective years every second**
  * 1 minute * 4.437 billion people = **~8,441.7 collective years every minute**
  * 5 minutes * 4.437 billion people = ~ **42,208.9 collective years every 5 minutes**

With these numbers at hand, if we take a small pond of this collective time (1
second) and put it into the bigger picture, here are some highlights from 140
years ago ([1879](https://www.onthisday.com/events/date/1879)):

  * The first automatic telephone switching system patented
  * The first cable connection between South Africa and Europe
  * The invention of a hearing aid called the Audiophone
  * First cash register patent designed to combat stealing by bartenders in saloons
  * First patent for a gasoline-driven automobile
  * First patent for a refrigerating apparatus
  * Edison gives the first public demonstration of his incandescent lamp

The things enumerated above might seem “normal” today but they started 140
years ago as ideas, prototypes and patents. In the decades that followed we
reached a point of [innovation
diffusion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diffusion_of_innovations) making
these ideas part of our “normal” day-to-day lives.

These examples should help us acknowledge how it’s not only humans changing
the world through technology. **This is also about how technology changes us,
its users, especially during this race for corporations to maximize their
profits by siphoning our precious time through any means necessary.**

**This is also about the opportunities ahead of us if we can tap into this
human ocean of time made possible by the Internet and the Web, to solve some
of our biggest challenges we face today as a civilization.**

**The potential is already present** but today the most popular tools of
communication are built to collect our time and monetize it, using unhealthy
psychological hacks to keep us addicted and returning for more.

![](https://static.slab.com/prod/uploads/posts/images/Nmm-
bQHMK5N8ovmH7e4Vpv5z.png)

[Source](https://www.digitalinformationworld.com/2019/01/how-much-time-do-
people-spend-social-media-infographic.html)

“More time collected from our users means more ads which translate into more
money for our shareholders.”

I have to believe that’s the “short-sighted thinking” behind “the thought
process” (how do we consume as much of your time and conscious attention as
possible), because anything else would be simply too evil to even contemplate.

From this perspective let’s ask and answer the question:

”What do we want to do with the collective time of people using our
application?”

As a non-profit born at the intersection of blockchain and collective
intelligence, we want to help individuals unlock their potential through open
systems that expand our collective minds at local, regional, and global
scales. **In short, we provide you with the tools to create oceans of
collective intelligence and time for purposeful action.**

In contrast, what does Facebook do with the collective time of people using
their application(s)?

As a for-profit corporation, they want to increase shareholder value by
maximizing the profit from advertising through highly-addictive practices and
interactions designed to exploit a human vulnerability. **In short, in a true
“Collected Time Sink” fashion, _CONSUME_ as much as possible of your time and
intelligence for money.**

A general assumption of the last century was that the masses are generally
“dumb,” heavily influenced by the work in the fields of crowd psychology also
known as "mob psychology". Facebook appears to be operating under this
assumption as well, personified eloquently by Mark Zuckerberg in the now
classic messages calling Facebook users [“dumb
fucks...”](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2010/09/20/the-face-of-facebook)
😒

Today, we believe that through a product like
[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/) we can turn this assumption on its head.
Works like [Social Physics](https://www.amazon.com/Social-Physics-Networks-
Make-Smarter-ebook/dp/B00DMCUYRM/), [Collaborative
Intelligence](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00N6PEVD8/), [Swarm
Leadership](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B01MZHYUA2/), and [Reinventing
Organizations](https://www.amazon.com/Reinventing-Organizations-Creating-
Inspired-Consciousness-ebook/dp/B00ICS9VI4/) (among many others) have become
very relevant and a source of inspiration towards building new systems
**enabling humans to come together as one, unlocking in the process our
potential as a social species, co-existing and thriving in a post-industrial
society.**

[ ![7](/static/8fd763b2f83a52b29db2d1342ce0602d/1c72d/7.jpg)
](/static/8fd763b2f83a52b29db2d1342ce0602d/73831/7.jpg)

In the beginning, we asked ourselves if a decentralized social network shaped
as a censorship-resistant publishing platform was the best use-case to focus
on.

We reach now the conclusion of this post with a renewed understanding of
“social networking apps as tools” and how we can enhance, instead of exploit,
our social human nature with technology and, more specifically, blockchain
technologies.

While we do not know if this is the best we can expect blockchain technologies
to bring into our lives, we do know that **having a better way for humans to
self-organize as an intelligent collective in response to the biggest
challenges of our times is something that can bring massive good into the
lives of many people.**

The current "social networking" tools result in a collective cacophony marked
by fake news and surveillance capitalism. In contrast, we seek to create a
symphony of knowledge and wisdom weaved together through purposeful acts of
individual **_and_** collective self expression.

These new horizons for social media networks can be seen as ways to gain
empowerment and new avenues through which we can collaborate towards a more
equal society.

**Only that this time through technology designed to maximize collaboration
potential and collective intelligence, not advertising profit. Through
something that enhances our human condition rather than turning it against
us.**

Now the answer to “why” would someone use AKASHA.world expands to include
things like “collective intelligence,” “collective time oceans,” and
“purposeful action.” Through this lens, AKASHA becomes one of the first
movements seeking to ignite thousands of other movements as part of a network
of social networks brimming with potential.

To what end, you might ask?

Interestingly, the answer is for **_you_** to decide because very soon we will
all become more than just passive observers of the reality surrounding us.

This is why, even though we cannot offer you an answer, we can leave you with
a better question:

What is the change **_you_** want to see in the World?

[**Sign up and let’s make it happen together!**](https://akasha.world/)

[ ![8](/static/8c19dda0133f656ae20cc3f6a172b3c6/1c72d/8.jpg)
](/static/8c19dda0133f656ae20cc3f6a172b3c6/418a7/8.jpg)

\ o / \ o / \ o /

End of Part II | [Part
I](https://akasha.org/blog/2019/01/15/akasha-2019-metamorphosis-part1/)

👋 Join the conversation on
[Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/bkaf61/announcing_akasha_reloaded_signups_for_early/)
/ on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/AkashaProject/status/1124354526289506306) /
or [Discord](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ) :)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

[Community](/blog/category/community/)

[Research](/blog/category/research/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2019/05/03/diving-
into-the-oceans-of-time-metamorphosis-part2)

