![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/dns-over-https-is-long-overdue/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/dns-over-https-is-long-overdue/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/dns-over-https-is-long-overdue/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/dns-over-https-is-long-overdue/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/dns-over-https-is-long-overdue/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/dns-over-https-is-long-overdue/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![DNS-over-https is long overdue -- but people still need Internet privacy
tools](/static/0a732a1424f319945e3a0fdeb13d3ad5/Orchid_BlogImage_DoH.jpg)

# DNS-over-https is long overdue -- but people still need Internet privacy
tools

May 26, 2020  
  

In privacy circles, the term DNS-over-https has been seeing increased
attention lately. Earlier this year, Mozilla [began the
rollout](https://blog.mozilla.org/blog/2020/02/25/firefox-continues-push-to-
bring-dns-over-https-by-default-for-us-users/) of DNS-over-https as the
default for its Firefox browser, and Google recently
[announced](https://www.theverge.com/2020/5/19/21262923/google-chrome-privacy-
security-safe-browsing-cookies-dns-https-extensions) that it will follow suit
with its next software update. As a result, by the end of the year [more than
three quarters](https://www.computerworld.com/article/3199425/top-web-
browsers-2020-firefox-stays-afloat-chrome-hits-69-for-first-time.html) of U.S.
web traffic will be encrypted in this way.

DNS-over-https refers to the routing of online traffic between computers and
their destination websites -- which takes place through the Domain Name
System, or DNS -- through the encrypted Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure
(https). The difference between this and the traditional http is simply that
the DNS request is sent over a secure connection. As straightforward as that
sounds, it makes a major difference for people's online security. With DNS-
over-https, the nature of web traffic is obfuscated while in transit, making
it impossible for third parties to interfere.

DNS-over-https offers strong protection against eavesdropping and tampering,
since third parties are unable to decipher the encrypted traffic as it travels
over the DNS servers. Crucially, it also prevents man-in-the-middle attacks,
in which a malicious third party is able to gain control of traffic and steal
or tamper with information. The effects of this type of attack can be severe
and include the loss of critical private information, large sums of money, or
both. Any attacker with sufficient technical expertise can launch such an
attack if they are in proximity to two targets connected to an unsecured Wi-Fi
network.

The implementation of DNS-over-https as the default in web browsers is an
important milestone for Internet privacy and the security of individual web
users. But while it may seem like a universally positive step, not everyone is
happy about the change. Internet service providers (ISPs) such as Verizon and
AT&T generate revenues by logging and selling web traffic data to third-party
advertisers. In fact, large U.S. ISPs have aggressively [lobbied
Congress](https://www.ncta.com/sites/default/files/2019-09/Final%20DOH%20LETTER%209-19-19.pdf)
in opposition to DNS-over-https. And lawmakers [have
protested](https://www.zdnet.com/article/dns-over-https-causes-more-problems-
than-it-solves-experts-say/) that it will hamper legitimate information
gathering in the interest of criminal justice or national security.

DNS-over-https is a good thing, but other safeguards are still necessary

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

Orchid has grown out of a steadfast belief in the importance of privacy and
transparency on the Internet. This belief holds that neither corporate revenue
models nor prosecutorial rationales outweigh the right of individuals not to
be watched or manipulated without their consent. Lack of proper security
measures has made people vulnerable online for too long, so it is welcome news
that some major providers are now moving to encrypt web traffic. However, it
is still important for individuals concerned about privacy to incorporate best
practices to protect themselves, and these include Internet tools such as
VPNs.

While DNS-over-https protects people from falling victim to surveillance or
man-in-the-middle attacks, it does not make their Internet browsing fully
private. The destination website still sees the information and can store it
or share it out to third-party aggregators for advertising purposes. This data
is still vulnerable to exploitation if the databases they end up in are
compromised.

Therefore, people concerned about online privacy should continue to follow
[best practices](/tips-for-protecting-your-privacy-while-working-from-home/)
to minimize the likelihood of surveillance. Orchid, designed around Internet
privacy with a mission to restore the web as a free and open place, brings
together the services of leading VPN providers in a single [incentivized
marketplace](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf). Orchid
lets users combine the services of different VPNs, "[hopping](/what-is-a-
hop/)" between them for even stronger anonymity. DNS-over-https is an
important step, and combining it with the right privacy tools can offer people
the strongest Internet privacy currently available.  
Orchid is [available for download](https://www.orchid.com/download).

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)
  * [VPN](/tag/vpn/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22DNS-over-
https%20is%20long%20overdue%20--%20but%20people%20still%20need%20Internet%20privacy%20tools%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fdns-
over-https-is-long-overdue%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fdns-
over-https-is-long-overdue%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fdns-
over-https-is-long-overdue%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/what-does-a-vpn-hide/)

#### What does a VPN hide?

](/what-does-a-vpn-hide/)

Apr 15, 2021

](/what-is-split-tunneling/)

[

#### What is split tunneling?

](/what-is-split-tunneling/)

May 3, 2021

](/why-ordinary-people-are-turning-to-vpns/)

[

#### Why Ordinary People Are Turning to VPNs

](/why-ordinary-people-are-turning-to-vpns/)

Jul 14, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

