[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Dubai is piloting a decentralised data programme with Outlier Ventures

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Dubai is piloting a decentralised data programme with Outlier Ventures

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2017/04/ov_vangelis-150x150.jpg)

May 2019

Posted by

Vangelis Andrikopoulos

Research Analyst

Vangelis is an analyst focusing on deep quality assessment of deals that pass
the initial deal-flow stages. He is also exploring the convergence of
blockchain technology, artificial intelligence and the internet of
things....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1928)

# Dubai Could Be Producing Over 620M Gigabytes By 2020, Which Will Now Have
The Potential To Be Connected To Blockchain

## By Vangelis Andrikopoulos and Lawrence Lundy-Bryan

### [![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/SmartCities_Social-21.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/OV-SMART-CITIES-FINAL.pdf)

Posted by Vangelis Andrikopoulos - May 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2017/04/ov_vangelis-150x150.jpg)

May 2019

Posted by

Vangelis Andrikopoulos

Research Analyst

Vangelis is an analyst focusing on deep quality assessment of deals that pass
the initial deal-flow stages. He is also exploring the convergence of
blockchain technology, artificial intelligence and the internet of
things....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1928)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

## Dubai is planning to launch ‘Decentralised Data for Dubai’, a programme
that brings an open data ‘Sandbox’ built using a range of decentralised
technologies from the Outlier Ventures ‘Convergence Stack’, potentially
including Sovrin, Ocean Protocol and Fetch.AI. The new programme will
represent the largest living group of data sets ever accessed through
blockchain(s) and it will bring public and private sector organisations
together with a selection of decentralised protocols to create the open data
Sandbox.

Decentralised Data for Dubai was conceived following a research report into
smart city development undertaken jointly between Smart Dubai and Outlier
Ventures.

The new programme will represent the largest living group of data sets ever
accessed through blockchain(s) and it will bring public and private sector
organisations together with a selection of decentralised protocols to create
the open data Sandbox. Developers will have completely open access to Dubai’s
data so they can build exciting new services. The initiative will be supported
by a range of working groups and a two day hackathon that challenges
developers to build prototypes.



## Renewal of the City

By 2050, 68% of the world population will live in cities. These megacities
will be producing more than 80% of the global GDP and are coming to resemble
the ancient state-cities of Athens, Rome, and Carthage but now supercharged by
data. These megacities tend to have similar challenges to nations around
infrastructure, connectivity, mobility, and healthcare and have developed
their own distinct cultural and economic micro-climates. Broken business
models and misaligned incentives between different city stakeholders have
restrained innovation and limited sustainable and inclusive growth.

As our greatest challenges become increasingly global and technological
progress continues its exponential march, cities are once again coming to the
fore. Nations are struggling to address global challenges like climate change,
migration, and an integrated global economy supercharged by the Internet.
Cities do not suffer from the same level of constitutional weight and are able
to be more flexible and adaptable to the fast-changing technology, cultural
and economic landscape. As the scale of problems is global like climate change
and migration, the nation is no longer able to deliver effective policy
responses.

Cities, on the other hand, offer a solution. Reinforcing collaboration and
globalism to tackle these global problems regardless of national borders. It
is the City that has the flexibility and opportunity to grasp the
opportunities emerging from the coming Fourth Industrial Revolution and make a
real and lasting impact. Cities must lead the revolution by utilizing data and
emerging technologies in an open, collaborative, and shared way to build the
digital infrastructure required to support a global, integrated and dynamic
economy.

Public-private partnerships are a start and have fostered collaboration
between corporations and governments by aligning the business models while
ensuring solutions meet the needs of citizens not just shareholders. Cities,
just like communication networks, benefit from network effects, that is, the
more citizens join the more collaboration, innovation and economic output it
produces. The challenge comes in connecting people, assets and data to take
advantage of these city network effects.

### [DOWNLOAD THE REPORT HERE](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/OV-SMART-CITIES-FINAL.pdf)



## Data is the Most Important Resource in the City

First, we need to collect data. The Internet of Things consists of the
interconnection of identifiable connected devices into the Internet. The
concept includes almost anything that has a sensor, collects and transmits
data over a network, including a city’s infrastructure, energy, security,
healthcare systems. The success of a smart city is the ability to capture vast
amounts of raw and clean data.

Second, once the data is collected by IoT and software, it needs to be
authenticated, validated and securely stored. Blockchains and ledgers fit into
the Convergence Stack as elements to a new data distribution layer. Sovrin for
example, is an open-source global utility for self-sovereign identity,
enabling any individual, organization or machine to own their digital
identity. Without these decentralized technologies, data authentication and
validation will lack the transparency, provenance, and tamper-evidence
features which are crucial in building a digital infrastructure to support
public utilities.

Finally, we want to find and make use of the data to support learning
algorithms that help us optimize and improve smart cities. The first step is
finding the data. Marketplaces are springing up to support the trading of
digital goods and data. Ocean Protocol makes it easy for buyers and sellers to
come together and trade data for use to feed learning algorithms. Other
marketplaces are emerging for different types of data including sensor data,
personal data, digital goods, land, and even software bots. The second step is
making use of the data. Fetch.ai enables software agents to learn from their
environment to make their own economic decisions. Other projects are using
this supply of data to build innovative new products and services. Smart
cities are the ideal testing ground with a vast ecosystem of interlocking data
markets from energy, transport, buildings, and physical infrastructure.



## **The Convergence Stack: A Trusted Smart City**

The current centralized data infrastructure is broken. It is broken from a
technical perspective. It is broken from a security and privacy perspective.
And it is nowhere near ready to handle the convergence of technologies and
markets in a smart city environment. We need a new digital infrastructure.

For smart cities to thrive and be successful, they need to look beyond
specific technologies or desires of particular industries. They must take a
holistic and integrated view and see the emerging decentralized digital
ecosystem as an opportunity to be grasped. They need to see that the internet
of things, blockchain technology, and artificial intelligence are all
interconnected. These technologies form the backbone of a trusted digital
infrastructure.

Only once a new trusted digital infrastructure has been installed can the
benefits of a truly smart city be shared widely and equitably. Outlier
Ventures is embarking on a journey with Smart Dubai to apply the Convergence
Stack on the city’s decentralised and open data infrastructure.

To read more about how the Convergence Stack expedites the adoption of Web 3.0
and turns a smart city in a successful smart city



[![Dubai is piloting a decentralised data programme with Outlier Ventures
Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/SmartCities_Social-21.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/OV-SMART-CITIES-FINAL.pdf)

### **[DOWNLOAD THE REPORT HERE](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/OV-SMART-CITIES-FINAL.pdf)**

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

