[ ![The Integral](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/04/dydx-
logo-white-1.svg) ](https://integral.dydx.exchange)

  * [ ![The Integral](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/04/dydx-logo-white-1.svg) ](https://integral.dydx.exchange)
  * ### Categories

[

###

Open Finance ](/tag/open-finance/)

[

###

Derivatives ](/tag/derivatives/)

[

###

Macroeconomics ](/tag/macroeconomics/)

[

###

dYdX Announcements ](/tag/dydx-announcements/)

[

###

Educational ](/tag/educational/)

[Trade](https://trade.dydx.exchange)

# dYdX Chooses Chainlink as its Oracle Provider for New Market

[dYdX Announcements](https://integral.dydx.exchange/tag/dydx-announcements/) •
Aug 25, 2020

[
](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://integral.dydx.exchange/dydx-
chooses-chainlink-as-its-oracle-provider-for-new-
market/&title=dYdX%20Chooses%20Chainlink%20as%20its%20Oracle%20Provider%20for%20New%20Market)
[
](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=dYdX%20Chooses%20Chainlink%20as%20its%20Oracle%20Provider%20for%20New%20Market&url=https://integral.dydx.exchange/dydx-
chooses-chainlink-as-its-oracle-provider-for-new-market/)

We are excited to announce the launch of a new Perpetual Contract market for
[LINK-USD](https://integral.dydx.exchange/link-usd-perpetual-contract-market-
is-live/) which uses Chainlink’s [LINK/USD Price Reference Data
feed](http://feeds.chain.link/link-usd) as a [reference
price](https://feeds.chain.link) to determine on-chain liquidations.

After performing extensive due diligence, we selected Chainlink’s LINK/USD
price oracle because it provides the highest quality price data, delivered by
the largest and most decentralized group of independently run, Sybil-resistant
oracles. Our users can also monitor the real-time health of the oracle via
Chainlink’s various monitoring resources, in order to gain insights into the
oracle network as a whole, or the individual nodes and their on-chain
responses.

![](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/08/Hi-res-DYDX-
Diagram_V4-XL.png)

With Chainlink already securing over $2B USD value within DeFi, we are
confident that Chainlink’s oracle infrastructure is capable of supporting our
LINK-USD Perpetual Contract—both now, and well into the future—even under the
most adverse market conditions. Chainlink’s price reference model is
especially critical for helping us secure assets in more thinly traded
markets, which can be reliably mitigated by its high-quality aggregated data
feeds.

## What’s Next?

We are working on launching additional Perpetual Contracts to our platform,
with the goal of making dYdX the go-to platform for trading a variety of
cryptoassets across Spot, Margin, and Perpetuals. We are also actively
building a [Layer 2 solution](https://integral.dydx.exchange/scaling-with-
starkware/) with StarkWare to be able to offer an even better experience for
our traders.

If you’d like to get started with trading on our platform or have any other
questions, please join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/y6KsCsr) and follow us
on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/dydxprotocol).

## About Chainlink

If you’re a developer and want to quickly get your application connected to
Chainlink Price Reference Data, visit the [developer
documentation](https://docs.chain.link) and join the technical discussion in
[Discord](https://discordapp.com/invite/aSK4zew). If you want to schedule a
call to discuss the integration more in-depth, reach out
[here](https://chainlink.typeform.com/to/gEwrPO).

Chainlink is an open-source blockchain abstraction layer for building and
running decentralized oracle networks that give your smart contract access to
secure and reliable data inputs and outputs. It provides oracles to leading
DeFi applications like Synthetix, Aave, and Kyber Network; numerous
blockchains such as Ethereum, Polkadot, and Tezos; as well as large
enterprises including Google, Oracle, and SWIFT.

[Website](https://chain.link) | [Twitter](https://twitter.com/chainlink) |[
Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/Chainlink/) |
[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCnjkrlqaWEBSnKZQ71gdyFA) |
[Telegram](https://t.me/chainlinkofficial) |
[Events](https://blog.chain.link/tag/events/) |
[GitHub](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/chainlink) | [Price
Feeds](https://feeds.chain.link/) | [DeFi](https://defi.chain.link/)

#### Subscribe to our newsletter

Get the latest posts delivered right to your inbox.

Your email address Subscribe

![Success!](https://integral.dydx.exchange/assets/images/success.png?v=7304b94c7b)

Now check your inbox and click the link to confirm your subscription.

Please enter a valid email address

Oops! There was an error sending the email, please try later.

[ ](https://integral.dydx.exchange/author/dydx/)

####  [dYdX Exchange](https://integral.dydx.exchange/author/dydx/)

dYdX is a decentralized exchange that supports spot, margin, and perpetuals
trading. The Integral is a blog covering Open Finance, Crypto Markets,
Bitcoin, Crypto Derivatives and dYdX Announcements.

No results for your search, please try with something else.

The Integral (C) 2022   •   Published with [Ghost](https://ghost.org)

[ ](https://t.me/joinchat/GBnMlBb9mQblQck2pThTgw) [
](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dydx/) [
](https://twitter.com/dydxprotocol)

[JavaScript license
information](https://integral.dydx.exchange/assets/html/javascript.html?v=7304b94c7b)

Great! You've successfully subscribed.

Great! Next, complete checkout for full access.

Welcome back! You've successfully signed in.

Success! Your account is fully activated, you now have access to all content.

