[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/703e6d276551&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Mysterium
Network](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*17ydm95DmW8qBxy7RmyVdg.png)](https://medium.com/mysterium-
network?source=post_page-----703e6d276551--------------------------------)

Published in

[Mysterium Network

](https://medium.com/mysterium-network?source=post_page-----
703e6d276551--------------------------------)

[![Sharmini
Ravindran](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*SS8VIZUKfAf0rGRWqseUoQ.jpeg)](/@sharminiravindr?source=post_page
-----703e6d276551--------------------------------)

[Sharmini Ravindran](/@sharminiravindr?source=post_page-----
703e6d276551--------------------------------)

Follow

Nov 11, 2019

·

8 min read

# Earn crypto with exciting new token economies

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*hYI2q7US1vkrXxq_WqD4AA.png)

# Decentralising the world economy

The internet redefined business forever, replacing brick and mortar with
computer screens. But what’s more important is that it formed entirely new
economic systems, such as the sharing and gig economies.

Made up of freelancers and temporary workers, the gig economy affords people
the freedoms and independence to work in their own way. We can now customise
our jobs to fit into our lives, and not the other way around.

The success of sharing economy startups-turned-conglomerates signalled that
these community-driven businesses had a much-needed model — one which
empowered consumers for the first time.

These sub-economies show us what our global community is capable of when given
an internet connection and a platform to share, collaborate and connect with
one another. They break apart the traditional professional landscape and opens
up new, fluid streams of income.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*r1Jn0vS2Oil9XhP9DH2mQw.png)

# Tokens — money of the fourth industrial revolution?

Token economies are the next iteration of finance. Their decentralized systems
are designed by and for people, rather than purely commercial profit. For
example, with traditional sharing economies, host platforms like Airbnb and
Uber take their ‘share’ and turn into conglomerates.

In a decentralized sharing economy, these companies become obsolete; you are
the user, the host and the network itself. Token economies can create
financial opportunities for everyone, regardless of geography or level of
education.

In a token economy, value can easily be digitised and shared. People are
incentivised to contribute their time, resources or services through token
reward systems. These transparent, secure and community-run systems are built
on decentralised networks called blockchains, most commonly the Ethereum
blockchain. They enable all kinds of decentralized applications (dApps) to be
developed and plugged into them..

## Traditional Economy

People pay businesses for goods and services. Revenue and profit flows one way
— customer to business.

## Sharing & Gig Economy

Businesses or individuals pay people to provide goods and services, but host
companies take a cut and you play by their rules.

## Token Economy

People rent, share and sell goods and services directly with each other or
businesses on their own terms — no fees, no contracts, middleme

# Here are some token economies which you can be a part of today.

# Rent don’t share

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/600/1*evHSLS_rfNaj8VVXZKEYSQ.jpeg)

##  **Golem Network**

[Golem Network](https://golem.network/) allows the entire internet community
to share their computing power through its decentralized network. It combines
the power of users’ individual machines, creating one giant supercomputer.
Anyone can tap into and utilise it for all sorts of power-intensive needs,
such as rendering high-quality film. You receive tokens in exchange for
contributing your own computing power.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/600/1*o9g7hx2pEPXvU0aU0NK3LQ.png)

##  **Mysterium Network**

Just like Golem, [Mysterium Network](https://mysterium.network/) has created
an entire network which enables anyone to contribute their resources and
[receive tokens in exchange](https://mysterium.network/node/). In this case,
users can buy a Rasberry Pi preloaded with a node and power the network. It’s
as simple as plug, play and earn. Switch it on to start sharing your unused
bandwidth (internet connection) while you work or sleep.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/600/1*e0Vq6Hi0rfkNQolX7eVulg.jpeg)

##  **Origin Protocol**

[Origin Protocol](https://www.originprotocol.com/en/) allows anyone to build
their own decentralized marketplace. You can create and manage listings for
all kinds of assets and services. Buyers and sellers use the platform to
discover each other, browse listings, make bookings and even leave ratings and
reviews.

# Get paid to predict the future

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*45E9XiGOZZDk_-tg84-sMA.png)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/600/1*c0uh2-j4YdKZcMna15zYuA.png)

## Augur

[Augur](https://www.augur.net/) is a prediction markets platform which
harnesses the power of the crowds. It allows anyone, anywhere, to create or
participate in markets and bet on real-world events, such as elections or the
weather forecast. For example, you can “turn your political knowledge into
predictive power” by waging on the outcome of upcoming elections and other
political events. You can bet on any event worldwide for no sign-up, no
deposits or limits and near-zero fees. Prediction markets are not just for
gambling — they create more accurate prediction tools.

# Work for tokens

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*gd7LTGQEc8D5QN0ov-a_pA.png)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/598/1*VTh8KvA0kwreig5KOO2Emg.jpeg)

## Earn

[Earn](https://earn.com/) bitcoin by replying to emails and completing tasks.
You can set up a free professional profile and then join curated lists based
on your skills and interests. You can receive paid messages from recruiters,
startups, and researchers.

You can also get paid to learn about new projects within the cryptocurrency
space, helping startups to build their communities, get feedback on
whitepapers or airdrop tokens.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*kY1WXZaEWbPCfejbDAvgDw.jpeg)

## Bounty0x

Similar to Earn, [Bounty0x](https://bounty0x.io/) is a crypto bounty hunting
platform. You can receive cryptocurrency and tokens by completing simple
marketing, software development and creative tasks. This includes content
creation, graphic design, filling out surveys, translating services,
programming and video animation. They currently offer six different
cryptocurrencies as a form of payment, as well as ERC20 utility tokens. They
will soon be adding security tokens.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/532/1*1U7onmeQvqN0IYPHl9SI6A.jpeg)

## BULVRD

Earn tokens while you drive. With [BULVRD](https://bulvrdapp.com/), you help
build and maintain a global mapping and road reporting network. Use the app
while you drive and help report road incidents like traffic and hazards. You
earn on the drives you’re already making and can use their Augmented Reality
experience to earn even more.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/450/1*TEQytcOI4xuz3YDlMeEd2w.png)

## Bounties Network

The [Bounties Network](https://www.bounties.network/) aims to change the way
we collaborate, solving the core problems individuals face when working and
transacting with each other across the globe.

It lets you create projects, collaborate and get paid for doing work in any
domain — from freelancing to grassroots social action, research, content
translation, or video production.

Use their Explorer to search through a global market of projects and talent.
You can easily create or fulfill tasks, transacting in any Ethereum-based
token with automated payments.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/700/1*l34g8APSuORJ-jV6tkZlqg.jpeg)

## Open Bazaar

[OpenBazaar](https://openbazaar.org/) provides everyone with the ability to
buy and sell through their direct peer to peer app. You can create a store and
sell whatever you’d like — your music, clothing, art. You get paid in
cryptocurrency and as there are no middlemen, there are no fees and no
restrictions.

# Let your content work for you

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*hXu_51iM44OmnLcBZi0QOQ.png)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/600/1*BWoSvX1VlDbYdmXgVmaYwg.png)

## Steemit

[Steemit](https://steemit.com/) rewards its users for making and sharing
content on their platform. You can monetise your content, receiving tokens
based on the popularity of your posts. Users upvote or downvote what you
share, incentivising a higher quality. It aims to redefine social media by
building a social or ‘attention’ economy, where users receive tokens for
sharing their voice, as opposed to current social media platforms where users
get nothing. It has already paid out $59,595,935 worth of native STM tokens.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/530/1*AzMhXZz_ejo9PdDIU6igFw.jpeg)

## Publish0x

A “crypto powered blogging platform” with a point of difference — With
[Publish0x](https://www.publish0x.com/) readers and sharers, not just writers,
can also earn. This publishing platform is crypto agnostic, meaning you can
accept whichever cryptocurrency you like, not just a native token. Tips are
given to you by the platform. You then read articles and split your tip with
authors. Ambassadors can also crypto by sharing great articles with others.

# Decentralised Finance (DeFi)

Amongst the more exciting and promising use cases for blockchain is the
opportunity to redefine traditional finance. Loan, borrow, trade, earn
interest — all in cryptocurrency and tokens.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*5CzHvuWgvATUVOXTsk_9Bg.png)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*UaE4wayCv54tiQyQVx6-hA.jpeg)

## Compound Finance

[Compound Finance](https://app.compound.finance/) is a transparent, autonomous
money market. It enables anyone to earn interest by lending their Ethereum
assets to other users. You can also borrow assets, for any length of time —
even as short as one blockchain block (roughly ten minutes)! There are no
requirements for how long an asset must be supplied or borrowed. Interest
accumulates every block, so you’re free to withdraw or repay your loan at any
time.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/600/1*a_ev-FbVVzmxdrz3CtVWlw.jpeg)

## MakerDAO

[Maker](https://makerdao.com/en/) is creating economic opportunity for
everyone. It is one of the leading projects in the blockchain community and is
known for pioneering transparent and sustainable finance. Its open platform
allows equal access to high-quality financial services, including fair credit
for everyone. They also provide a decentralized stablecoin, collateral loans,
and community governance. They will help you understand everything you need to
know.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1200/1*FmsRJ1CeIjHHXXAenCMnVA.png)

## Dharma

Once you’ve made all your tokens, you can easily grow your crypto holdings to
make your money go further. Instead of letting your tokens sit in a wallet or
on an exchange (you should never let it sit in an exchange, for security
reasons), you can lend your crypto and earn up to 11% interest APR. Or if you
want to borrow crypto, you can get some in minutes — no credit checks
required. [Dharma](https://www.dharma.io/) doesn’t actually touch your crypto,
it just gives you the platform to loan or borrow it.

Token economies are already creating a global workforce that is as diverse and
varied as internet users themselves. You can easily be a part of them
yourself.

Learn more about Mysterium’s [node
pilot](https://help.mysterium.network/en/articles/3434344-what-are-the-
requirements-to-receive-the-bounty-eth-payments) and how you can earn by
sharing your bandwidth.

[Original article](https://mysterium.network/2019/06/14/be-a-part-of-exciting-
token-economies-and-earn-extra-money-online/) posted on [Mysterium Network’s
blog](https://mysterium.network/blog/).

[![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1360/1*KVemUIEgTpc-
zXcp0L3hjQ.jpeg)](https://mailchi.mp/mysterium.network/newsletter)[![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1360/1*oQQM-0ehwV3qaOQVLyUHfQ.jpeg)](https://discord.me/mysterium)

[![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1360/1*lEacU_01BunT2KNjtTv4QA.jpeg)](https://twitter.com/MysteriumNet)[![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1360/1*x369MiNvI6Tg3BqAp9uhcg.png)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCBxzWnZEHvuj-
nfP00YImHQ)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1360/1*hXGcxWk6fFWeh-MqlwhoZg.jpeg)

\--

1

\--

\--

1

## [More from Mysterium Network](/mysterium-network?source=post_page-----
703e6d276551--------------------------------)

Decentralized VPN built on blockchain - https://mysterium.network

[Read more from Mysterium Network](/mysterium-network?source=post_page-----
703e6d276551--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Christian
Jensen](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*lyGdr4-vnd9erC61VkNNzA.png)](/@cjen.eth?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Christian Jensen

](/@cjen.eth?source=post_internal_links---------0----------------------------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## 7 Easy Ways to Earn Crypto Online

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Tfn24D5ynPIRjdkHFj0pMA.jpeg)](/coinmonks/7-easy-
ways-to-earn-crypto-online-4df438a84a4d?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Crypto Wealth Builders](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*PEATlsQ-
rHZgabIIIffBQw@2x.jpeg)](/@cryptowealthbuilders?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Crypto Wealth Builders

](/@cryptowealthbuilders?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## IOTA — Issue #16

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*EtPYk1LJ2qEwy_i8D2CKEg.png)](/@cryptowealthbuilders/iota-
issue-16-5191257b8bd8?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Richard Charles,
Ph.D.](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*-_hdIWd9RybyfTJDD3lsHQ@2x.jpeg)](/@richard-
charles?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

[Richard Charles, Ph.D.

](/@richard-charles?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Crypto-Craze, a Flavor of PrimeNet!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*oVUup9US7-3O5jwujVV8cw.jpeg)](/@richard-
charles/crypto-craze-a-flavor-of-
primenet-8b2cf589a494?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Don
Sturgill](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Lbq_XC6w9KpjwrMEVWSTRg.jpeg)](/@DonSturgill?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Don Sturgill

](/@DonSturgill?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Crowdsourcing Personal Wealth: Rhino Coin

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*OhSZz3pDyX9PyrzUN_Ijdw.png)](/@DonSturgill/crowdsourcing-
personal-wealth-rhino-coin-697615942dc6?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Nftart.promo](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*SZ0ObHtwmtSneAkdkkIWgg.png)](/@promonftart?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Nftart.promo

](/@promonftart?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## NFT collection by Alpha Kongs Club.. shorturl.at/pryS9

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*q3-W0G_EIZA7J6NtgZZxsw.png)](/@promonftart/nft-
collection-by-alpha-kongs-club-shorturl-at-
prys9-59e437c4aadb?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![5 Minute Crypto
Digest](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*uX6D1qyqhsfiEiN_k8w6Zw.png)](/@cryptomonthly?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[5 Minute Crypto Digest

](/@cryptomonthly?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## How to stay calm in the crypto market

![](https://miro.medium.com/freeze/focal/112/112/50/50/1*GgRaAxhYArWwHz46yNTCug.gif)](/@cryptomonthly/how-
to-stay-calm-in-the-crypto-market-b53c46edb710?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[[![Femiwater](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*JugGIjckv20qp_Ul.jpg)](/@femiwater28?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Femiwater

](/@femiwater28?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## PROLOGUE TO WERENODE ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING (EV)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*7EmKTaeLwiC2nBampdhfzA.jpeg)](/@femiwater28/prologue-
to-werenode-electric-vehicles-charging-
ev-4f354f8802e7?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![BIDITEX
Exchange](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*yS1XlJUemmkf2NeHDT7hUA.jpeg)](/@biditex?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[BIDITEX Exchange

](/@biditex?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

in

[The Capital

](https://medium.com/the-capital?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Cryptocurrency Oversimplified: A Beginner’s Guide To Crypto

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Q2TIf-
VoGCBYQXL6SqfgSw.png)](/the-capital/cryptocurrency-oversimplified-a-beginners-
guide-to-crypto-c87f5c2879d0?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----703e6d276551--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
703e6d276551--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
703e6d276551--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
703e6d276551--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
703e6d276551--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----703e6d276551--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----703e6d276551--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fmysterium-
network%2Fearn-crypto-with-exciting-new-token-
economies-703e6d276551&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Sharmini
Ravindran](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*SS8VIZUKfAf0rGRWqseUoQ.jpeg)](/@sharminiravindr)

[

## Sharmini Ravindran

](/@sharminiravindr)

123 Followers

Co-Founder @DeZy — DeFi for Everyone; Advisor @MysteriumNet @Playform

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F4c865dd4429d&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fmysterium-
network%2Fearn-crypto-with-exciting-new-token-
economies-703e6d276551&newsletterV3=3977b2741bfc&newsletterV3Id=4c865dd4429d&user=Sharmini+Ravindran&userId=3977b2741bfc&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Karl
Liebermann](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*lQ9WnpFxv6_WvBpjVQsRJQ.png)](/@karl.liebermann?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------18481fbf_0920_4d28_89c3_3f9c803fa8f0-------)

[Karl Liebermann

](/@karl.liebermann?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
18481fbf_0920_4d28_89c3_3f9c803fa8f0-------)

in

[BLOCK6

](https://medium.com/block6?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------18481fbf_0920_4d28_89c3_3f9c803fa8f0-------)

## NFT Games and Earn to Play

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*fSHQqVMYoG1T1KyXR-
oOCA.png)](/block6/nft-games-and-earn-to-
play-c1157aff5b06?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
18481fbf_0920_4d28_89c3_3f9c803fa8f0-------)

[[![Power
Dungeon](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*6iNi0EEHrMos5o18AtjMbA.jpeg)](/@powerdungeon?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------18481fbf_0920_4d28_89c3_3f9c803fa8f0-------)

[Power Dungeon

](/@powerdungeon?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
18481fbf_0920_4d28_89c3_3f9c803fa8f0-------)

## 5 Reasons to Onboard with NFT Games in 2022

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*AunINT6t-yfog-9lpRdX0w.jpeg)](/@powerdungeon/5-reasons-
to-onboard-with-nft-games-in-2022-960e189f6f78?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------18481fbf_0920_4d28_89c3_3f9c803fa8f0-------)

[[![Kennyran.eth](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*4zq3s4nV7KKhhbGd.jpg)](/@kennyran?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------18481fbf_0920_4d28_89c3_3f9c803fa8f0-------)

[Kennyran.eth

](/@kennyran?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
18481fbf_0920_4d28_89c3_3f9c803fa8f0-------)

## How to mint NFT’s

![Metamask.io](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*MvPBsZpDiTiqBBj77J_swQ.png)](/@kennyran/how-
to-mint-nfts-4dbcff11af9e?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------18481fbf_0920_4d28_89c3_3f9c803fa8f0-------)

[[![UniFarm_](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*25yPr5DeO0PrAYdkgzlREQ.png)](/@UniFarm_?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------18481fbf_0920_4d28_89c3_3f9c803fa8f0-------)

[UniFarm_

](/@UniFarm_?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
18481fbf_0920_4d28_89c3_3f9c803fa8f0-------)

## 5 Best DApp Browsers for Your Android and iOS Devices — UniFarm

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*p0-C6ADMZRLupLnl.jpg)](/@UniFarm_/5-best-
dapp-browsers-for-your-android-and-ios-devices-
unifarm-1a9549357468?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
18481fbf_0920_4d28_89c3_3f9c803fa8f0-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

