[Go Back](../../)[Fleek.co](https://Fleek.co)

# Easily pin to IPFS with Fleek Storage Js! - A short guide

![](https://fleek-team-bucket.storage.fleek.co/thumbnails-
blog/fleek_storage_js_thumbnail.png)

It’s now easier than ever to upload and pin files to IPFS thanks to Fleek
Storage Js.

Fleek Storage Js allows developers to easily create apps that integrate with
IPFS.

In this short guide, we will get you up and running with Fleek Storage Js so
you can create the next awesome dapp.

We will cover the two most important actions: uploading a file and getting a
file.

### Prerequisites

Fleek Storage Js can be installed as an [npm
package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@fleekhq/fleek-storage-js).

    
    
    npm install @fleekhq/fleek-storage-js

or with yarn…

    
    
    yarn add @fleekhq/fleek-storage-js

Then import the package in your code.

    
    
    const fleek = require('@fleekhq/fleek-storage-js');   

or…

    
    
    import fleek from '@fleekhq/fleek-storage-js';   

Using Fleek Storage Js necessitates an api key. A key can easily be generated
on the web app <https://app.fleek.co> in the [user
settings](https://app.fleek.co/#/settings/general/profile).

[
![userSettings](../../static/d6baa01fd0a6a85dec173f5ab174bf9a/d9199/userSettings.png)
](../../static/d6baa01fd0a6a85dec173f5ab174bf9a/111fd/userSettings.png)

Clicking on `Create New Api Key` will produce a new api key and api secret.
Make sure to copy the api Secret, since it will only be shown once.

[ ![apiKeys](../../static/38c0c432fee1bdbd7e7242eaf2c3085b/23266/apiKeys.png)
](../../static/38c0c432fee1bdbd7e7242eaf2c3085b/23266/apiKeys.png)

By default, every Fleek account comes with a bucket in which uploaded files go
to. You do not have to specify a bucket when using Fleek Storage Js, because
the SDK will use your default bucket if none is specified.

Fleek Storage Js provides the `listBuckets` method in case you wish to list
all the buckets associated with your Fleek account.

### fleek.upload: Upload and pin a file!

The `upload` method can be used to upload individual files on IPFS.

    
    
      const input = {
        apiKey: '123',
        apiSecret: 'abc',
        key: `my-folder/my-file-name`,
        data: myFile,
      };
    
      const result = await fleek.upload(input);

The method returns a promise. It requires the api key, api secret and the
file’s data. If using node, `fs.readFile` can be used to get a file’s data
from the computer.

The method needs a `key`, which is the identifier that you give to the file.

Files uploaded through `upload` will also appear in the [Fleek Storage web
app](https://docs.fleek.co/storage/storage-app).

The file’s `key` can be in the format of a path, such as in the example above.
In that case, the web app will display the file as part of a folder structure.

What does the returned data of the method looks like? Let’s take a look!

    
    
    { hash:
       'bafybeienymabwnsk5ktoylx6s3g3gitv7ppedumqyxtxsnrk3dhoeztnm4',
      hashV0: 'QmXt2euF7yLwbJBvLj518mtuJfbkzgtXDTdW2ZNbUyTqvv',
      key: 'my-file-name',
      bucket: 'my-bucket',
      publicUrl:
       'https://my-bucket.storage.fleek.co/my-file-name' }

The promise returns the v1 IPFS hash (`hash` field) and the v0 IPFS hash
(`hashV0` field). The v0 IPFS hash is shorter and is therefore suited for
writing on blockchains such as Ethereum, where data storage is costly. In all
other cases, however, the v1 hash is preferred.

We also return the key and the name of the bucket containing the file.
Finally, the field `publicUrl` corresponds to the url provided by Fleek to
serve the file from a super fast CDN.

### fleek.get: Fetch a file!

The `get` method is for fetching either data related to a file, such as the
key, hash or public url, or the content of the file itself.

    
    
      const input = {
        apiKey: '123',
        apiSecret: 'abc',
        key: `my-folder/my-file-name`,
        getOptions: ['hash', 'data', 'publicUrl', 'key']
      };
    
      const result = await fleek.get(input);

The method will return an object whose fields will correspond to the values
specified in the `getOptions` field. The possible values for the getOptions
array are `data`, `bucket`, `hash`, `key` and `publicUrl`.

### fleek.listFiles: Show all files!

Finally, there are cases when you might want to list all the files in a bucket
and get their `publicUrl`, `hash` or `key`.

In that case, `listFiles` is appropriate. It works exactly the same as `get`,
except it returns an array.

## More resources

Here’s a [Github repo](https://github.com/SamueleA/fleek-storage-js-examples)
that shows an example of usage for each Fleek Storage Js method.

Additionally, the [Fleek Storage Js](https://docs.fleek.co/storage/fleek-
storage-js) docs contains an exhaustive account of the inputs for each method.

## Time to create!

Now that you know how to use Fleek Storage Js, you can easily upload and pin
files to IPFS.

You can now unleash your creative powers on the decentralized web.

Share your awesome creations with us on Twitter!

  * [Sign up](https://app.fleek.co) to try yourself
  * Join our [Community Chat](https://slack.fleek.co/)
  * Follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/FleekHQ)
  * Subscribe to our [Youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCBzlwYM0JjZpjDZ52-SLUmw)
  * Check out our [Tech Docs](https://docs.fleek.co/)
  * Contact us at support@fleek.co

Published 22 Jun 2020

  * [Tutorial](../../tag/tutorial/)
  * [Guide](../../tag/guide/)
  * [Storage](../../tag/storage/)

Fleek is all you need to build websites and apps on the new Open Web:
permissionless, trustless, censorship resistant, and free of centralized
gatekeepers. Welcome to the new internet.[](https://www.twitter.com/FleekHQ)

