[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Energy as Data: Decarbonization, Digitization, and Decentralization

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Energy as Data: Decarbonization, Digitization, and Decentralization

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2017/04/ov_vangelis-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Vangelis Andrikopoulos

Research Analyst

Vangelis is an analyst focusing on deep quality assessment of deals that pass
the initial deal-flow stages. He is also exploring the convergence of
blockchain technology, artificial intelligence and the internet of
things....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1928)

# Supporting the Shift to the Low-carbon Economy

## By Vangelis Andrikopoulos and Lawrence Lundy-Bryan

## Download our report The Energy Stack [here](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/The-Energy-Stack-report.pdf)

Posted by Vangelis Andrikopoulos - June 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2017/04/ov_vangelis-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Vangelis Andrikopoulos

Research Analyst

Vangelis is an analyst focusing on deep quality assessment of deals that pass
the initial deal-flow stages. He is also exploring the convergence of
blockchain technology, artificial intelligence and the internet of
things....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1928)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

### The transition to distributed energy

Our modern energy system is failing us. Ever since the industrial revolution,
our economy has been powered by non-renewable sources of energy dominated by
coal, oil, and natural gas. The economic gains we have made as a society as a
result of our extraction and use of these sources of energy have been
unparalleled in human history. However, as we have begun to understand the
impact our energy system is having on the climate, there is a growing
understanding that we must transition to a low-carbon energy system. Put
simply, we as a society have prioritized economic growth over the environment.

Even as we begin to understand our negative impact on the environment, global
energy demand is expected to rise by 48% by 2040. We must find ways to meet
this demand in a low-carbon way. The good news is that renewable sources of
energy like solar and wind have drastically reduced in cost to the extent that
they are now the same cost or cheaper than the price of power from the energy
grid. Cheaper battery storage is making it easier to balance supply and
demand, a problem which has until recently limited the use of renewables. As
production and distribution of energy changes, so is consumption. The demand
for electric cars is forcing energy systems to adapt and redesign how energy
is delivered.

Taken together, we are transitioning from a centralized energy system reliant
on burning fossil fuels, to a distributed and peer-to-peer system in which
renewables are increasingly used. This transition brings with it a whole host
of technological challenges that the energy sector has never needed to deal
with. For the energy network to adapt it must use the latest data
technologies. Sensors connected to the Internet of Things to digitize the
grid. Blockchains to track and share data. And artificial intelligence
algorithms to optimize and automate the entire energy system. To integrate
these advanced data technologies holistically, the energy sector should look
to the Convergence Stack as a framework.

### **Sensors collect data to digitize the grid**

The energy infrastructure as a consequence of its reliance on coal, oil, and
gas, has struggled to adapt to changing consumer demand. Once electricity
passes into our homes, for example, the system loses track of it. As fossil
fuels are very slowly phased out, variable renewable energy sources are
“plugging” into the grid. Renewable sources such as solar and wind are
unpredictable which makes balancing supply and demand a real challenge. We
cannot monitor, control, and balance what we cannot measure.

Sensors that measure energy usage like smart meters are the starting point for
the creation of a “smart home” and by extension a “smarter grid”. First, they
allow data from appliances such as fridges, ovens, lights, and thermostats, as
well as electric vehicles to be collected. Secondly, renewable energy
production from solar panels and wind turbines can be monitored and combined
with battery storage data to balance supply and demand on the network.

![Energy as Data: Decarbonization, Digitization, and Decentralization Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Screenshot-2019-06-16-at-20.10.03.png)

### **Blockchains track and secure data**

Once we collect data from IoT sensor networks it needs to be authenticated,
validated and secured. Todays existing digital infrastructure stores data in
databases with a single-owner and lacks tools to facilitate the effective
sharing of data. These databases are often not even encrypted and prone to
hacking attempts. The problem gets even worse as more and more of the energy
grids are brought online making the entire system more and more susceptible to
cyber attacks. As an increasing number of renewable sources and devices
equipped with batteries interact in energy networks, the process of energy
trading and certifying renewable energy production, it is crucial we support
these use cases by using blockchains.

Blockchains are a cryptographically linked list of timestamped records. They
can be implemented in different ways depending on the specific needs of the
applications. They can be tweaked to prioritize speed, security or
decentralization, and maybe different blockchain networks make different
trade-offs. Different energy use cases will have different needs, for example,
the trading of renewable energy certificates might need to prioritize security
while more complex automated transactions using smart contracts will need to
prioritise speed. Regardless of the particular configuration, blockchain
networks are designed to be interoperable and be foundational data
infrastructure tracking and securing data.



![Energy as Data: Decarbonization, Digitization, and Decentralization Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Screenshot-2019-06-16-at-19.58.47-1.png)

**Artificial intelligence to optimize the energy system**

After collecting and securing the data, the next step is to analyze the data
to optimize production and consumption to save both energy and money. DeepMind
recently used machine learning algorithms trained on weather forecasts and
historical turbine data to predict wind power output 36 hours ahead of
generation increasing the value of the energy by around 20 percent. DeepMind
didn’t use blockchain-based data so it had to go through the expensive and
laborious process of collecting and standardizing all of the data. Projects
like Ocean Protocol can make useful energy data easily available to everyone
and systems like Fetch.AI can use agents to collect missing data autonomously.
With more data and algorithms, the entire energy system can become more
efficient; from automatically dimming street lighting, energy surge pricing to
disincentivize demand, to automatic selling of excess household energy.

The Convergence Stack provides a framework for understanding the convergence
of the IoT, blockchains, and AI and how the energy sector can adopt these new
technologies. We must move to a low-carbon economy as fast as we can to avoid
the worst climate change predictions. The energy sector must support this
transition by upgrading its digital infrastructure. We can no longer afford to
wait.

### Download our report The Energy Stack [here](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/The-Energy-Stack-report.pdf)

![Energy as Data: Decarbonization, Digitization, and Decentralization Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Screenshot-2019-06-16-at-18.33.41.png)



_This article is for information purposes only and does not constitute
investment advice. This article does not amount to an invitation or inducement
to buy or sell an investment nor does it solicit any such offer or invitation
in any jurisdiction._

_In all cases, readers should conduct their own investigation and analysis of
the data in the article. All statements of opinion and/or belief contained in
this article and all views expressed and all projections, forecasts or
statements relating to expectations regarding future events represent Outlier
Ventures Operation Limited own assessment and interpretation of information
available as at the date of this article._

___No responsibility or liability is accepted by Outlier Ventures Operations
Limited or Sapia Partners LLP for reliance on the contents of this article._

_Outlier Ventures is an Appointed Representative of Sapia Partners LLP, a firm
authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)._

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

