The process of selling in general, and web commerce in particular, is often
described or charted as a funnel. Prospective customers are poured in at one
end, and a fewer number of paying customers come out at the other. The other
prospects spill out through other holes or over the side of the funnel and
don't bring you any revenue. The fraction of customers left, converted from
prospects to customers, is called the conversion rate. As prospects proceed
from initial interest to final sale, from initial entry page to clicking the
final "I Agree" button, more and more of them become discouraged by various
worries which beset the consumer. They drop out. The remaining prospects,
those who have not dropped off, have been converted into customers or into an
audience for your advertisers.  
  
There are a variety of factors that cause drop-off, which vary from business
to business. A common cause is forms.  Simplifying forms often greatly
increases conversion rates.  For example, in one
[study](http://contentverve.com/lead-form-optimization-case-study/) cutting
the number of lines on a form in half increase conversions by a third. As one
web designer [put it](http://www.searchenginejournal.com/7-things-you-can-do-
when-your-conversion-funnel-sucks/31150/): "[i]s every field you're asking the
visitor to submit absolutely necessary?  Can you trim the fat and make the
process simpler?"  
  
Besides the sheer tediousness and time consumed in filling out forms, rational
consumers also worry about the potentials for privacy violation and identity
theft from the information most e-commerce sites currently require them to
divulge: physical and e-mail addresses, phone numbers used for cross-site
behavioral tracking, insecure credit card numbers, and more.  
  
[![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-91Muuob1ykM/VhbHcMMz4tI/AAAAAAAAAU0/o4nW0fba4Js/s1600/RF_Wallet2.jpg)](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-91Muuob1ykM/VhbHcMMz4tI/AAAAAAAAAU0/o4nW0fba4Js/s1600/RF_Wallet2.jpg)  
---  
_The tinfoil-wallet crowd is now mainstream_  
  
Instances of regret that one has filled out a form, only to have one's[ trust
violated ](https://twitter.com/anjiecast/status/607038893393772545)\-- or
[pride](https://twitter.com/csoghoian/status/607057306430242816) among the
sophisticated that they refused to fill out such a form -- are on the rise.  
  
The worst worry culprit is usually the step you most want your customers to
complete -- paying you. "[T]he credit card form likely has the highest
abandonment rate of any other part of the sign-up process."
[[Source](http://petovera.com/17-examples-of-the-best-online-sales-funnels/)].  
  
If you don't require payments, you are probably funding your service through
advertisements. Those also cause worries. Ads typically distract and delay
from the content users are after, provide a low quality of entertainment or
information, and are too often offensive. And sophisticated users are worried
about the tracking that tends to go with ads. Ad blocking
[grew](http://www.economist.com/news/business/21653644-internet-users-are-
increasingly-blocking-ads-including-their-mobiles-block-
shock?fsrc=scn/tw/te/pe/ed/blockshock) nearly tenfold between 2009 and 2014.  
  
Replacing ads and identity-based payments with payments that don't require
identity, such as bitcoin, can greatly reduce these worries, lowering the
barriers and hesitations that currently prevent consumers from paying for your
service.  
  
But there remains a big worry that no payment system can reduce.  Consumers
worry about whether they are getting their money's worth -- the [mental
transaction cost ](http://szabo.best.vwh.net/micropayments.html)problem (see
also[ this paper](http://nakamotoinstitute.org/static/docs/micropayments-and-
mental-transaction-costs.pdf)). If e-commerce were as worry-free as some of it
could be, your customers would neither have to fill out forms, nor be bothered
by ads, nor have to worry about repeated charges for content or services of
variable value. They would be able to just insert a few digital coins into
your online vending machine and then not have to worry about losing your
service for another year. Eliminate forms _and_ eliminate repeated payments --
both are key to worry-minimized e-commerce.  
  
Many bitcoin startups are making the grave mistake of replacing one set of
worries with another. The ability of cryptocurrency systems to facilitate
small payments tempts many companies to nickel-and-dime their customers with
pay-per-click micropayments and other such excruciating schemes. Don't follow
the many lemmings who have already jumped off that cliff. Stick to long-term
subscriptions for content (or other services of variable value) and pay-per-
unit for fungible units of consistent value (as in phone minutes).  That way
customers aren't saddled with having to constantly re-evaluate the amount and
worthiness of recurring charges. The costs to your customers of having to
finance a years' worth of low-cost subscription to a reputable brand is almost
always far less than the mental transaction costs of recurring charges for
content or services of variable value. The ideal worry-free commerce is to
"stick the coin into the machine" once, and then never have to pay again for
an entire year. A vending machine for subscriptions. Reduce your customers'
worries across the board: eliminate forms _and_ eliminate recurring charges.  
  
Ideal worry-minimization can only be closely approached in some purely online
forms of commerce, such as video streaming, remote storage, privacy services,
and the like. The more physical and offline contract performances are -- a
common example being physical delivery -- the more location, various kinds of
identity (legal, social network, etc.) may need to come into play, adding,
often greatly and necessarily, to the worry overhead, the mental transaction
costs, of your relationship with your consumers.  
  
I have previously called this worry-minimized commerce by a narrower label,
"form-minimized commerce."  The complexity of the forms you make your users
fill is indicative of the worries you are causing them, and thus the barriers
you are putting up between your prospects and their decisions to purchase your
services.  
  
When you are a consumer, the tediousness of the forms you are filling out is
not only a direct cost of your time, and your ability to enjoy that time, it
is on top of that a decent proxy measure of the odds of your identity being
stolen and of your privacy otherwise being violated. The fewer forms you fill
out, the more the tediousness, worries, and risks in your life caused by
interacting with the world's institutions will drop in proportion.  
  
While such a proxy measure does not account in particular for the wide variety
of information that can be disclosed, nor that some kinds of information
(social security numbers) are more risky to divulge than others (throw-away
email addresses), nor for the wide variety of risks in identity theft and
privacy violation that are consequent, nevertheless consumers necessarily must
bring to bear such sweeping rules-of-thumb in order to satisfactorily navigate
the bizarre complexities of the digital world.  And when your users are using,
whether consciously or implicitly, such estimates, you the service provider
and the product designer must use them too.  
  
Add to the forms your customers must fill out the repeated charges you make
your customers make, and we get a rough proxy measure of the worry that you
are causing your consumers:  

> Index of worry = number of lines of forms +  number of repeated charges for
> content or services of variable value

If you are funded through ads rather than consumer payments, you can
substitute for the repeated charges the proportion of screen space covered by
your ads, or any other reasonable estimate of the delay and distraction the
ads on your pages cause.  
  
The index of worry allows you to estimate and minimize the worries you are
causing your users, and as a result to minimize the drop-off in your sales
funnel and maximize the number of users coming back for more -- and willing to
view your ads or pay for the privilege.  
  
  
---

