[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/bc3bf6b23c66&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Bitwise Asset
Management](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*d0LAMHWy1EpE6il-9nS6oA.png)](https://medium.com/bitwise-
asset-management?source=post_page-----
bc3bf6b23c66--------------------------------)

Published in

[Bitwise Asset Management

](https://medium.com/bitwise-asset-management?source=post_page-----
bc3bf6b23c66--------------------------------)

[![Bitwise](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*qM6bSBp1qCs_nSsngDkq2Q.png)](/@bitwise.invest?source=post_page
-----bc3bf6b23c66--------------------------------)

[Bitwise](/@bitwise.invest?source=post_page-----
bc3bf6b23c66--------------------------------)

Follow

May 14, 2018

·

4 min read

# ETF Industry Legend John Hyland Joins Cryptocurrency Pioneer Bitwise Asset
Management As Global Head of Exchange-Traded Products

SAN FRANCISCO, May 14, 2018 — [Bitwise Asset
Management](http://www.bitwiseinvestments.com), creator of the world’s first
cryptocurrency index fund, announced today that it has hired ETF industry
legend John Hyland as the firm focuses aggressively on developing public
vehicles for accessing cryptoassets around the world.

Hyland joins the firm as its new global head of exchange-traded products. He
was previously chief investment officer and leader of United States Commodity
Funds, a multibillion-dollar ETF manager based in Oakland, Calif. He is well-
known for spearheading the launch of the first crude oil ETF, the first
natural gas ETF, the first copper ETF and one of the most innovative commodity
basket funds in the world, the United States Commodity Index Fund. At its peak
under Hyland’s leadership, United States Commodity Funds managed more than $7
billion in commodity exposure in an ETF wrapper.

Hyland joins two other senior ETF veterans who have signed on with Bitwise in
recent months. Matt Hougan, former CEO of both ETF.com and Inside ETFs, and
one of the most well-respected figures in the ETF industry, joined the firm in
February as global head of research. Teddy Fusaro joined the firm as its chief
operating officer in April after helping build two significant ETF firms,
Direxion and IndexIQ; Fusaro most recently served as senior vice president at
NY Life Investments, following that firm’s acquisition of IndexIQ in 2015.

“I feel like I’m joining the crypto ETF ‘Dream Team’ at Bitwise,” said Hyland.
“Bitwise has everything you need to succeed in this space: world-class
software and engineering talent, a deep understanding of cryptoassets, and
hugely relevant experience in the world of institutional asset management and
sales. While regulators still have many questions about the crypto space, I’m
excited to work with the team at Bitwise and our partners in the ETF ecosystem
to productively engage in that dialogue.”

“Bitwise is committed to making it easy for any investor to get secure,
convenient, and low-cost exposure to cryptoassets,” said Hunter Horsley, CEO
of Bitwise. “Exchange-traded products, such as ETFs, are a fantastic way to do
that in an efficient wrapper. Though they haven’t been possible in the space
so far in the U.S., John has deep experience in working with regulators and
partners to introduce first-of-a-kind ETFs. We’re thrilled to have him leading
our efforts on this front.”

Bitwise launched the world’s first cryptocurrency index fund, the HOLD 10
Private Index Fund, on Nov. 22, 2017. The fund is available to accredited
investors and charges a management fee for its Investor Class of 2.5% per
year. Through May 13, 2018, the fund was up 32.2% after fees, compared to a
5.3% return for Bitcoin.

 **ABOUT BITWISE  
** Founded in 2017, Bitwise Asset Management is a partner to individuals,
financial advisors, family offices, investment managers, and institutions in
navigating cryptocurrency. With the mission to make it easy for anyone to
invest in cryptocurrency, Bitwise develops funds, indexes, insight, and other
services. The team behind Bitwise has expertise in technology, security, and
finance. The firm is based in San Francisco. For more information, or to
invest, visit
[www.bitwiseinvestments.com](http://www.bitwiseinvestments.com/).

 **CONTACT  
** Hewes Communications, Inc.  
Tucker Hewes, 212.207.9451  
[tucker@hewescomm.com](mailto:tucker@hewescomm.com)

 _Bitwise Asset Management, Inc. and its affiliates (collectively, the
“Manager”) are furnishing this release (this “Release”) to sophisticated
prospective investors for informational purposes only in relation to a
potential opportunity to subscribe for limited liability company interests
(“Interests”) in Bitwise HOLD 10 Private Index Fund, LLC (the “Fund”). This is
neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation for an offer to buy Interests in
the Bitwise HOLD 10 Private Index Fund, LLC. Any offer to sell or solicitation
of an offer to buy Interests will be made solely through definitive offering
documents, identified as such, in respect of the Fund in compliance with the
terms of all applicable securities and other laws. Such definitive offering
documents, if any, will describe risks related to an investment in the Fund
(including loss of the entire investment) and will qualify in their entirety
the information set forth in this Release._

 ** _No Advice on Investment; Risk of Loss_**

 _Prior to making any investment decision in respect of the Fund, each
investor must undertake its own independent examination and investigation of
the Fund, including the merits and risks involved in an investment in the
Interests, and must base its investment decision — including a determination
whether Interests would be a suitable investment for the investor — on such
examination and investigation and must not rely on the Manager or the Fund in
making such investment decision. Prospective investors must not construe the
contents of this Release as legal, tax, investment, or other advice. Each
prospective investor is urged to consult with its own advisors with respect to
legal, tax, regulatory, financial, accounting and similar consequences of
investing in the Fund, the suitability of the investment for such investor and
other relevant matters concerning an investment in the Fund. This Release
contains an overview summary of the terms of the Fund. The summary set forth
in this does not purport to be complete, and is qualified in its entirety by
reference to the definitive offering documents relating to the Fund. Do not
place undue reliance on this Release._

 ** _Information May Change and Be Inaccurate, Incomplete, or Outdated_**

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Bitwise Asset Management](/bitwise-asset-
management?source=post_page-----bc3bf6b23c66--------------------------------)

Notes from Bitwise.

[Read more from Bitwise Asset Management](/bitwise-asset-
management?source=post_page-----bc3bf6b23c66--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Project
Hydro](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*ZKBxUtpvEb8d4SlFNV7wyg.png)](/@projecthydro?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Project Hydro

](/@projecthydro?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Grant & Partnership with Ethernity.live

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*et2Ct0KfxNW5K1fmxekXdg.jpeg)](/@projecthydro/grant-
partnership-with-ethernity-live-564f67b9b78c?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[[![Crypto
Canuck](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*ObEqaCUmqxXthtchJaEYTw.png)](/@cryptocanucklehead?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Crypto Canuck

](/@cryptocanucklehead?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## DeFi Kingdoms Blockchain

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*ru6cjtUkBowAeVjQefN-6w.png)](/@cryptocanucklehead/defi-
kingdoms-blockchain-fea5722198b1?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Safeorbit](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@safeorbit?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Safeorbit

](/@safeorbit?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Safe Orbit Protocol

](/@safeorbit/safe-orbit-protocol-2d3f7fcc1b90?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[[![NFTyou.io](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*zJlURAdDsBuHXT6Xgj2i6Q.png)](/@nftyou?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[NFTyou.io

](/@nftyou?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

## OpenSea Hacked?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*hPfKeFevuT91CQdiEjKHZA.jpeg)](/@nftyou/opensea-
hacked-5ef28b092c95?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Loai
Misto](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@louai.misto?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Loai Misto

](/@louai.misto?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Blockchains: A Layperson’s Story

](/@louai.misto/blockchains-a-laypersons-
story-8b89e647ab3a?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Vishal
Waman](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*-EPrZH6QpPO0ci7gt44Bkw.jpeg)](/@vishalwaman?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Vishal Waman

](/@vishalwaman?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## NFT and Metaverse

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*xT8RWtQStNJXKWqKhSPteQ.png)](/@vishalwaman/nft-
and-metaverse-8b57f92eca96?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![CryptoNewsPipe](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*N9sgeyZ39ER7Fv-
SyuF0XA.png)](/@cryptonewspipe?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[CryptoNewsPipe

](/@cryptonewspipe?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Top 5 cryptocurrencies to watch this week

![Top 5 cryptocurrencies to watch this
week](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*_T4lm8pO8VqRHTUy.png)](/@cryptonewspipe/top-5-cryptocurrencies-
to-watch-this-week-31074c884dbd?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Verasity](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*IhS0yOn6nbT7lI3D9ab0Uw.jpeg)](/@VRATech?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Verasity

](/@VRATech?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

in

[Verasity

](https://medium.com/verasity?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Credit Card Payments — VeraWallet

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*SVukTWwE41AOK2Dl)](/verasity/credit-
card-payments-verawallet-f0ba3e3652b7?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----bc3bf6b23c66--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
bc3bf6b23c66--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
bc3bf6b23c66--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
bc3bf6b23c66--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
bc3bf6b23c66--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----bc3bf6b23c66--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----bc3bf6b23c66--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fbitwise-
asset-management%2Fetf-industry-legend-john-hyland-joins-cryptocurrency-
pioneer-bitwise-asset-management-as-global-bc3bf6b23c66&source=post_page
--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Bitwise](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*qM6bSBp1qCs_nSsngDkq2Q.png)](/@bitwise.invest)

[

## Bitwise

](/@bitwise.invest)

194 Followers

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fusers%2F5b2cd72c5d1b%2Flazily-enable-
writer-
subscription&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fbitwise-
asset-management%2Fetf-industry-legend-john-hyland-joins-cryptocurrency-
pioneer-bitwise-asset-management-as-global-
bc3bf6b23c66&user=Bitwise&userId=5b2cd72c5d1b&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Tim
Tahir](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@timtahir?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------53dd72a5_b7e3_45a4_9277_671f80667db5-------)

[Tim Tahir

](/@timtahir?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
53dd72a5_b7e3_45a4_9277_671f80667db5-------)

## Investing in Crypto on a Budget: Ten Tips for Broke Newbies

](/@timtahir/investing-in-crypto-on-a-budget-ten-tips-for-broke-
newbies-243019963eb8?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
53dd72a5_b7e3_45a4_9277_671f80667db5-------)

[[![Joe
Walker](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*NoKl8fHJhdTOSO7WjwrkeQ.jpeg)](/@IAmJoeWalker?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------53dd72a5_b7e3_45a4_9277_671f80667db5-------)

[Joe Walker

](/@IAmJoeWalker?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
53dd72a5_b7e3_45a4_9277_671f80667db5-------)

## Target inflation and miner rewards on the Koinos blockchain

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*BL_lQRJFbkepQOaGZdJfKA.jpeg)](/@IAmJoeWalker/target-
inflation-and-miner-rewards-on-the-koinos-
blockchain-5eed9f6050d2?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
53dd72a5_b7e3_45a4_9277_671f80667db5-------)

[[![Layemdele](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*VI02VuqlWrGRjYquQKKhZA.jpeg)](/@layemdele?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------53dd72a5_b7e3_45a4_9277_671f80667db5-------)

[Layemdele

](/@layemdele?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
53dd72a5_b7e3_45a4_9277_671f80667db5-------)

## I’m forgetting Bitcoin and aiming to get rich with this time-tested
strategy

](/@layemdele/im-forgetting-bitcoin-and-aiming-to-get-rich-with-this-time-
tested-strategy-69b7a2464018?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------53dd72a5_b7e3_45a4_9277_671f80667db5-------)

[[![Richoffcrypto](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*0I4GnQtu-B8otOWEfiE22Q@2x.jpeg)](/@Richoffcrypto?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------53dd72a5_b7e3_45a4_9277_671f80667db5-------)

[Richoffcrypto

](/@Richoffcrypto?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
53dd72a5_b7e3_45a4_9277_671f80667db5-------)

## What is Crypto Mining & How it works

](/@Richoffcrypto/what-is-crypto-mining-how-it-
works-2812c0587d5c?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
53dd72a5_b7e3_45a4_9277_671f80667db5-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

