[ ![The Integral](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/04/dydx-
logo-white-1.svg) ](https://integral.dydx.exchange)

  * [ ![The Integral](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/04/dydx-logo-white-1.svg) ](https://integral.dydx.exchange)
  * ### Categories

[

###

Open Finance ](/tag/open-finance/)

[

###

Derivatives ](/tag/derivatives/)

[

###

Macroeconomics ](/tag/macroeconomics/)

[

###

dYdX Announcements ](/tag/dydx-announcements/)

[

###

Educational ](/tag/educational/)

[Trade](https://trade.dydx.exchange)

# ETH-USD Perpetual Contract Market is Live

[dYdX Announcements](https://integral.dydx.exchange/tag/dydx-announcements/) •
Aug 4, 2020

[
](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://integral.dydx.exchange/eth-
inverse-perp/&title=ETH-USD%20Perpetual%20Contract%20Market%20is%20Live) [
](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=ETH-
USD%20Perpetual%20Contract%20Market%20is%20Live&url=https://integral.dydx.exchange/eth-
inverse-perp/)

After listening to our active trading community and evaluating the greater
DeFi product landscape, we are pleased to announce that we have launched an
[ETH-USD Inverse Perpetual Contract
Market](https://trade.dydx.exchange/perpetual/ETH-USD?trk-origin=Integral).

**To celebrate the launch, we are providing 50% off trading fees on the ETH-
USD Perpetual for the next 7 days.**

Now, dYdX traders can trade ETH with increased leverage (up to 10x), while
using ETH as collateral. Similarly to our BTC Perpetual, ETH-USD will have no
expiry. Our contracts have been [audited](https://blog.openzeppelin.com/dydx-
perpetual-audit/) by Open Zeppelin and can be viewed
[here](https://github.com/dydxprotocol/perpetual).

_Perpetual Markets on dYdX are not available in the United States. No actual
Fiat USD is supported on dYdX._

## Why an Inverse Perpetual?

An inverse perpetual contract is one that is quoted in USD but margined and
settled in the base asset -- in this case ETH. The benefit of this type of
contract is that users do not have to take on any stablecoin exposure, and can
use ETH that they likely already hold to trade with. Traders can now obtain
leveraged long or short exposure to ETH while using ETH as collateral and
earning returns in ETH.

## Why ETH?

While ETH is the underpinning of the DeFi ecosystem, there are currently only
a few simple ways to gain ETH leverage in both an efficient and decentralized
manner. With our Perpetual, users can ensure that they remain in control of
their ETH while gaining increased leverage and trading on the most liquid
orderbooks in DeFi.

## Contract Specification

Details for the ETH–USD perpetual market are provided below. The market
otherwise operates identically to the BTC–USD perpetual. General information
and examples can be found in the [Perpetual
Guide](https://docs.dydx.exchange/#perpetual-contract-guide). Details on the
protocol and decentralization can be found
[here](https://docs.dydx.exchange/#introduction).

  *  _Perpetual type_ : [Inverse](https://docs.dydx.exchange/#linear-and-inverse-perpetuals)
  *  _Underlying market:_ ETH–USD
  *  _Margin/settlement asset:_ ETH
  *  _Tick size:_ $0.10 USD
  *  _Min order size:_ $200 USD. Order sizes below $1,500 must be either market orders or fill-or-kill orders
  *  _Quantity step:_ $1 USD
  *  _Max order size:_ None
  *  _Max position size:_ None
  *  _Expiry:_ Perpetual (no expiration)
  *  _Maximum leverage:_ 10x
  *  _Initial margin requirement:_ 10%
  *  _Maintenance margin requirement:_ 7.5%
  *  _Fees:_ -0.025% Maker, 0.075% Taker
  *  _Custom fees for “small” orders:_ 1% Taker
  *  _Min order size to avoid “small” order fees:_ $1500 USD
  *  _Mark price for liquidations:_ The mark price is the on-chain index price, given by the [MakerDAO ETH–USD Oracle V2](https://github.com/makerdao/oracles-v2) which reports the median spot price of [six exchanges](https://github.com/makerdao/setzer-mcd/blob/ee89b1835f170eaf0ef585a4ae9f897bb6dfef8d/libexec/setzer/setzer-price-btcusd#L5-L9): Binance, Bitfinex, Bitstamp, Coinbase Pro, Gemini, and Kraken.
  *  _Funding:_ Funding payments are made every second according to a rate which is updated hourly. The funding premium is scaled so as to have a realization period of 8 hours.
  *  _Contract loss mechanism:_ Deleveraging (centralized, but verifiable insurance fund is the first backstop before deleveraging)
  *  _Trading hours_ : 24/7/365

## What’s next?

We are working on launching more perpetuals in the future, with the goal of
making dYdX the go-to platform for trading a variety of cryptoassets across
Spot, Margin, and Perpetuals.

If you’d like to get started with trading on our platform or have any other
questions, please join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/y6KsCsr) and follow us
on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/dydxprotocol).

[Trade](https://trade.dydx.exchange/perpetual/ETH-USD?trk-origin=Integral) the
perpetual now →

#### Subscribe to our newsletter

Get the latest posts delivered right to your inbox.

Your email address Subscribe

![Success!](https://integral.dydx.exchange/assets/images/success.png?v=c7f248bd02)

Now check your inbox and click the link to confirm your subscription.

Please enter a valid email address

Oops! There was an error sending the email, please try later.

[ ](https://integral.dydx.exchange/author/dydx/)

####  [dYdX Exchange](https://integral.dydx.exchange/author/dydx/)

dYdX is a decentralized exchange that supports spot, margin, and perpetuals
trading. The Integral is a blog covering Open Finance, Crypto Markets,
Bitcoin, Crypto Derivatives and dYdX Announcements.

No results for your search, please try with something else.

The Integral (C) 2022   •   Published with [Ghost](https://ghost.org)

[ ](https://t.me/joinchat/GBnMlBb9mQblQck2pThTgw) [
](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dydx/) [
](https://twitter.com/dydxprotocol)

[JavaScript license
information](https://integral.dydx.exchange/assets/html/javascript.html?v=c7f248bd02)

Great! You've successfully subscribed.

Great! Next, complete checkout for full access.

Welcome back! You've successfully signed in.

Success! Your account is fully activated, you now have access to all content.

