[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/767a93e6c680&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Compound](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*MzcWuVj0jfuGCiUYeCAVWA.png)](https://medium.com/compound-
finance?source=post_page-----767a93e6c680--------------------------------)

Published in

[Compound

](https://medium.com/compound-finance?source=post_page-----
767a93e6c680--------------------------------)

[![Adam
Bavosa](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*IhBdnwAtRmJwbnJ27s4BAA.jpeg)](/@adam.bavosa?source=post_page
-----767a93e6c680--------------------------------)

[Adam Bavosa](/@adam.bavosa?source=post_page-----
767a93e6c680--------------------------------)

Follow

Oct 8, 2020

·

5 min read

# ETHOnline 2020: 17 Hackathon Project Ideas

Compound is sponsoring [ETHGlobal](https://ethglobal.co/)’s Autumn 2020 event:
[ETHOnline](https://ethonline.org/). This virtual event features a global
hackathon and learning sessions with leading innovators in the Ethereum
community.

![ETHOnline 2020
Hackathon](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*dX4IjjmnJBbGKWnn8XJMCw.png)

In addition to learning about the latest in ETH 2.0 and new EIPs, hackathon
participants have the chance to compete for $125,000 worth of prizes. Compound
has created three bounties to inspire hackers to innovate in DeFi.

# Hackathon Bounties

These are the three bounties, totaling $5,500 in cUSDC prizes.

  1. Most original project that uses Compound.js: $1,500 of cUSDC
  2. Best Compound Governance tooling: $1,500 of cUSDC
  3. Best proposed improvement to the Compound Protocol — $2,500 cUSDC

Let’s walk through some valid hackathon project ideas to get teams started
building.

# Compound.js Bounty

[Compound.js](/compound-finance/compound-js-9d1e3e5742d8) is a JavaScript SDK
for Ethereum and the Compound Protocol which supports Node.js and the web
browser. It is a wrapper around Ethers.js. The bounty prize will go to the
team that implements the SDK in their project with the most original DeFi use-
case.

 **Hackathon Project Ideas:**

  * Build a simple, open source user interface with all Compound Protocol functions using Compound.js.
  * Build a full stack application that sends users email and/or text message alerts when Compound Governance events occur. This project would **double-count** toward this bounty and the Governance tool bounty.
  * Build an information and data visualization dashboard for the Compound Protocol interest rates over time. There are other metrics like supplies and borrows that can be included.
  * Build a game where NFTs are awarded to Compound users based on accomplishing certain actions; for example, receive a “First Supply” NFT for each market on Compound, that users receive if they supply to those markets.
  * Build a marketplace for delegated borrowing limits; for example, if a user has supplied 100 USDC to Compound but has borrowed nothing, they could “sell” their available borrowing ability on a marketplace to someone else.

# Compound Governance Bounty

[Compound Governance](https://medium.com/compound-finance/governance/home)
arrived earlier this year to fully decentralize the living, on-chain Compound
Protocol. This new mechanism of community-led upgrades has created a new
opportunity for innovation. The bounty prize will go to the team that creates
the best Compound Governance related tool. The submission can be an
application, SDK, API, or smart contract(s).

 **Hackathon Project Ideas:**

  * Build a COMP delegate tracker that shows where an address’ delegates came from over time.
  * Create a novel system that rewards participation in Compound Governance. If this includes a protocol patch, it would **double-count** toward this bounty and the protocol improvement bounty.
  * Create a full-stack, gas-less delegation or voting website for individuals or companies. See the final section of the [ETHOnline Compound.js workshop video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HDVTlO759hA) (source code is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/compound-developers/ethonline-compoundjs-demo)).
  * Build a marketplace where delegates can offer rewards, or solicit payment, for representing COMP-holders in Compound Governance.
  * Build tooling that lets users discuss, propose, or vote on governance issues through Twitter or other popular platforms for crypto users.
  * Develop a system that makes it easier for the Compound community to coordinate governance actions; for example, where they could build a roadmap together, rather than discuss each proposal one at a time in a vacuum.

# Compound Protocol Improvement Bounty

The Compound Protocol is a community-led Ethereum project. Any developer is
able to make code changes that can ultimately be implemented through
governance.

To jumpstart community contribution, a guide was created to walk developers
through the process of creating a protocol change ([A Walkthrough of
Contributing to the Compound Protocol](/compound-finance/a-walkthrough-of-
contributing-to-the-compound-protocol-9450cbe2133a)). The bounty prize will go
to the team that creates and proposes the best improvement to the Compound
Protocol.

Submissions for this bounty should aim to actually submit their proposal to
Compound Governance for consideration, though doing so by the end of the
hackathon period is not required.

As a bonus reward, proposals to Compound Governance may also request an
additional success grant for the developer(s), paid out of protocol reserves.

 **Hackathon Project Ideas:**

  * Deploy a Comptroller optimization. Currently, the Comptroller contract is near the Ethereum contract size limit. A refactor of this contract could be beneficial for ongoing feature development. More specific details for this are outlined on the [Compound Community Forum](https://www.comp.xyz/t/a-leaner-meaner-comptroller/461).
  * Compound Protocol gas optimizations. Gas costs could be lowered with different implementations of core protocol functions.
  * Interest rate model (IRM) changes. Each cToken contract has the ability to point to its own unique IRM. A handful of IRMs are used for the current set of cTokens, but this can be changed as the community sees fit. Creation of a brand new IRM could perhaps be something the community wants but does not know it yet.
  * Experiment with adding support for new asset types — for example, interest rate markets for NFTs, indices of tokens, or real-world assets.
  * Develop a complementary interest rate model or mechanism that enables supplying and/or borrowing at fixed interest rates.
  * Implement supply caps for new cToken markets, so there is a maximum amount of supply allowed into the protocol.

# Past Hackathon Winners and Runner Up Projects

Here are some bounty winners and notable projects from ETHGlobal hackathons in
2020. All of which included the Compound Protocol in their tech stack.

  * [DefiHedge](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/defihedge-reccyBVLFmj28JWo8) — A decentralized protocol for fixed-rate borrowing & interest rates
  * [cChannels](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/cchannels-recYwEEcuE3AwKTXT) — A crypto “bar-tab” type of payment system that uses the Compound Protocol for interest and borrowing with ETH and DAI.
  * [Atomic Ninja](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/atomic-ninja-recB0E2AxX2FrsukT) — An atomic Ethereum transaction batcher with a drag-and-drop user interface for aggregating various DeFi systems.
  * [Medici](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/medici-rec0ZMjaI34c0YEug) — An interest-earning wallet for digital cash.
  * [Maximus](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/maximus-recz3XPtk4MgzzNsk) — A community owned/governed version of MakerDAO that enables supplying/borrowing with Compound.
  * [tCDP](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/tcdp-recLEjfhpleHJ55zL) — Automated movement of assets amongst DeFi protocols to avoid liquidation fears in over-collateralized borrowing.
  * [Defido2](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/defido2-rec4Xf2g4TgWWCToM) — Hardware wallet CLI that has functions for DeFi, which include supplying ETH and DAI to Compound, as well as borrowing.
  * [NFWallets](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/nfwallets-recErbcXq0xNSP8zX) — A browser based wallet that enables users to utilize much of DeFi.
  * [Suicide Kings](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/suicide-kings-recRjRqpYlDkipyrq) — A no-loss ERC1155 game where players vote to win interest generated with Compound.

# Share Your Hackathon Ideas

ETHOnline is already underway. Teams are beginning to form and project ideas
are being brainstormed. **The Compound team is here to help.** Join us in the
**#sponsor-compound** channel of the [ETHGlobal
Discord](https://discord.gg/FKKkdY6) or the **#development** channel of the
[Compound Discord](https://compound.finance/discord).

We can help out with hack ideas, use cases, UI/UX, technical questions, code,
and more. Be sure to check out the [Compound
Documentation](https://compound.finance/docs) for developer guides, contract
addresses, and code examples.

Source code for projects are available in the [Compound
GitHub](https://github.com/compound-finance) organization. Happy hacking and
best of luck to the hackathon participants!

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Compound](/compound-finance?source=post_page-----
767a93e6c680--------------------------------)

Compound is an algorithmic, autonomous interest rate protocol built for
developers, to unlock a universe of open financial applications.

[Read more from Compound](/compound-finance?source=post_page-----
767a93e6c680--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![James
Carter](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*LARKR6-Xvq0atyaFV93dzQ.jpeg)](/@scale89?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[James Carter

](/@scale89?source=post_internal_links---------0----------------------------)

in

[DataDrivenInvestor

](https://medium.com/datadriveninvestor?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Tips for The NFT Mania

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*3iesg_sr8kC6NYN2iiFHRQ.png)](/datadriveninvestor/tips-
for-the-nft-mania-d97723047438?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![PembRock
Finance](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dv9FUDoQe2hkmblOwEcY5g@2x.png)](/@pembrock.finance?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[PembRock Finance

](/@pembrock.finance?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## PembRock’s IDO is coming to SmartPad

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*Zw2DTb9PERmNCdBE)](/@pembrock.finance/pembrocks-
ido-is-coming-to-smartpad-77df3ce573eb?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Crypto Castle 🏰](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*tQM9lyv_obp-
FYORhkR4xw.jpeg)](/@CryptoCastle?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[Crypto Castle 🏰

](/@CryptoCastle?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## AMA RECAP

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*eXahsnr6LcSVnY2hnzenOA.jpeg)](/@CryptoCastle/ama-
recap-dbcbda627887?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![CryptoIndex](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*J9kNiFutb9wE3cy_Gqc2qA.jpeg)](/@CryptoIndex?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[CryptoIndex

](/@CryptoIndex?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

in

[cryptoindex.io

](https://medium.com/cryptoindex-io?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Cryptoindex AI Daily Predictions and News for 03/19/2020

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*lZcbxLi8uDS-
UJSUZHslag.png)](/cryptoindex-io/cryptoindex-ai-daily-predictions-and-news-
for-03-19-2020-79a9f5f433a7?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Paul](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*qjxcpBAh91I-sAWalMdPAw.jpeg)](/@1actualpaul?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Paul

](/@1actualpaul?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## How to Buy Crypto and Use it to Earn Money in 2021

![Kraken Exchange Landing
Page](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*VZTCvsZf6IA0XXU-
VNLzIA.jpeg)](/@1actualpaul/how-to-earn-money-using-your-crypto-currencies-
in-2021-1a36cd9f1445?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Hugo
McCubbin](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*8-r42b5G29YOo8-n0tydHg.jpeg)](/@HugoMcCubbin?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Hugo McCubbin

](/@HugoMcCubbin?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## THERMAI HIMERAIA SICILY 407BC Hercules Hera Authentic Ancient Greek Coin
i58797

](/@HugoMcCubbin/thermai-himeraia-sicily-407bc-hercules-hera-authentic-
ancient-greek-coin-i58797-b7974ab4f007?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![X Parallel Space](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*DTJOQz4KlZ3mgr-
IYZDUUw.jpeg)](/@zitutu220?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[X Parallel Space

](/@zitutu220?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## How X-PARALLEL SPACE maximize user benefits?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*BUuE9IdGl2rmj4TXqqk1eA.png)](/@zitutu220/how-
x-parallel-space-maximize-user-
benefits-b7e379af89a2?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Guillaume
Renard](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*CN2Olm98a_vhXY_QJ6eNdg.jpeg)](/@Guillaumrenard?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Guillaume Renard

](/@Guillaumrenard?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## How cryptocurrencies and blockchains are changing the world

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*kkoTsk_V8I6MA5m7bgbS0g.png)](/@Guillaumrenard/cryptocurrency-
we-heard-this-word-everywhere-like-the-new-phenomenon-that-banks-and-all-the-
world-2de01983e2c9?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----767a93e6c680--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
767a93e6c680--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
767a93e6c680--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
767a93e6c680--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
767a93e6c680--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----767a93e6c680--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----767a93e6c680--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcompound-
finance%2Fethonline-2020-17-hackathon-project-
ideas-767a93e6c680&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Adam
Bavosa](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*IhBdnwAtRmJwbnJ27s4BAA.jpeg)](/@adam.bavosa)

[

## Adam Bavosa

](/@adam.bavosa)

964 Followers

DevRel @ [Compound.finance](http://Compound.finance)

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F320c371ec7d6&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcompound-
finance%2Fethonline-2020-17-hackathon-project-
ideas-767a93e6c680&newsletterV3=c323ca802342&newsletterV3Id=320c371ec7d6&user=Adam+Bavosa&userId=c323ca802342&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Modrater](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*2S2dCzfTukp7XIpcmlwYQg.png)](/@modrater?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------376b8150_04ba_40a1_8d6c_93aa905240c8-------)

[Modrater

](/@modrater?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
376b8150_04ba_40a1_8d6c_93aa905240c8-------)

## Is the CryptoPunks Discord community healthy? Data analytics can help
answer!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*HVd3ENWIdEx6AZOXnKs7sw.png)](/@modrater/is-
the-cryptopunks-discord-community-healthy-data-analytics-can-help-
answer-1f679fef491?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
376b8150_04ba_40a1_8d6c_93aa905240c8-------)

[[![Jude
Sherman](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*UcYZ_X8Yb5bIygWA)](/@jude.sherman?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------376b8150_04ba_40a1_8d6c_93aa905240c8-------)

[Jude Sherman

](/@jude.sherman?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
376b8150_04ba_40a1_8d6c_93aa905240c8-------)

## What is Cost Per Action (CPA) in mobile marketing?

![what is cost per
action](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*TbVcNaI8fDymOXZCKKD9jQ.png)](/@jude.sherman/what-
is-cost-per-action-cpa-in-mobile-marketing-
cf34acd7c317?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
376b8150_04ba_40a1_8d6c_93aa905240c8-------)

[[![Alainaclinkerzpr](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*saabbe30BnnuB25h)](/@alainaclinkerzpr93?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------376b8150_04ba_40a1_8d6c_93aa905240c8-------)

[Alainaclinkerzpr

](/@alainaclinkerzpr93?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
376b8150_04ba_40a1_8d6c_93aa905240c8-------)

## Founder of USV: Art, Business, and Madcanner NFT

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*avHu5f7IlM8wrOfZ.png)](/@alainaclinkerzpr93/founder-
of-usv-art-business-and-madcanner-nft-3a786e4d5b82?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------376b8150_04ba_40a1_8d6c_93aa905240c8-------)

[[![Rahul
Majumdar](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*bsFi51obduOKToJmylMPKw.jpeg)](/@darthrahul?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------376b8150_04ba_40a1_8d6c_93aa905240c8-------)

[Rahul Majumdar

](/@darthrahul?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
376b8150_04ba_40a1_8d6c_93aa905240c8-------)

in

[The Screen Zone

](https://medium.com/the-screen-zone?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------376b8150_04ba_40a1_8d6c_93aa905240c8-------)

## Horizon Zero Dawn Retrospective: How Guerrilla Games’ Surprise Hit Took the
Gaming World by Storm

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*IdE4M9HhujTlMQ4P_It1XA.jpeg)](/the-
screen-zone/horizon-zero-dawn-retrospective-how-guerrilla-games-surprise-hit-
took-the-gaming-world-by-storm-e35fb010829b?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------376b8150_04ba_40a1_8d6c_93aa905240c8-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

