#  [ Unenumerated ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/)

An unending variety of topics

## Monday, November 18, 2013

###  European-Asian divergence predates the industrial revolution

****Stephen Broadberry describes
new[estimates](http://www.voxeu.org/article/accounting-great-divergence) of
per capita GDP which say that the economic divergence between Western Europe
and other civilized parts of the world predates the industrial revolution.
(H/T [Marginal
Revolution](http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2013/11/assorted-
links-974.html)).  This is more consistent with my own theories (linked below)
than the idea that the Great Divergence magically appears from nowhere around
the year 1800.  Nevertheless I feel compelled to point out shortcomings in
these kinds of estimates, on any side of such debates.  
  
There are the usual correctable, but sadly seldom corrected, problems with
datasets comparing European economies over historical periods, for example
using "Holland", and leaving out, presumably not only the rest of the modern
Netherlands, but the entire area of the exceptional Low Country late medieval
industry and wealth (Flanders, Brabant, Hainault, etc.), most of which
migrated (along with most of the skilled craftsmen and merchants) to the
Netherlands during the 16th century wars there.  The southern Low Countries,
until those wars, were the leading centers of European textile manufacture and
probably also had the most labor-productive agriculture.  
  
Worse are these and all other attempts to compared historical European
"wealth" or "income" to those of non-European cultures before the era of cheap
global precious metals flows (initiated by [the exploration
explosion](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/10/dead-reckoning-and-
exploration-explosion.html)) allows comparison of prices.  How do you compare
the "wealth" or "income" of rice-eating and cotton-wearing Chinese farmer to a
milk-drinking, oat-eating, and wool-clad Scottish peasant? It it is neither
very useful nor very reliable to try to reduce such cultural and even genetic
differences to mere numerical estimates.  
  
So it's no surprise to see such conjectural and subjective estimates subject
to major revisions, and I'm sure we'll see many more such revisions, in both
directions, in the future. That said, many of the economically important
innovations in northwestern Europe long predate not only the industrial
revolution, but also the Black Death (Broadberry's new date for the start of
the Great Divergence), including the following biological bundle:  
  
(1) heavy dairying  
  
(2) Co-evolution of human lactase persistence and cow milk proteins  
  
(2) [delayed marriage](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hajnal_line)  
  
(3) hay  
  
(4) greater use of draft animals  
  
  
[![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/blogger_img_proxy/ABLy4ExcbqV13asAoP4U9z44mpT9zmynJHs-v6q_4ai807QeVHgbVwZvoz9Z033UUGWsu_UGoq9fXRABCfFKZu6g90R_f0qyClX8ChsVUTbWBJzZjgBhVKbJjQnw7TjpZ_VIyMaQyxSCCDNZv1A=s0-d)](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/0/0d/ShireDraftHorse.jpg)These
innovations all long predate the [Black
Death](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/06/agricultural-consequences-of-
black.html), except that thereafter this biological divergence, especially in
the [use of draft animals,
accelerated](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/06/trotting-ahead-of-
malthus.html).  After a brief interruption the [lactase persistent
core](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/05/lactase-persistence-and-
quasi.html) resumed its thousand-year conversion of draft power from humans
and oxen to horses, including super-horses bred to benefit from good fodder
crops -- the [Shire Horse](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shire_horse),
[Percheron,](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Percheron)
[Belgian](http://.wikipedia.org/wiki/Belgian_horse), etc., and of course the
famous [Clydesdale](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clydesdale_\(horse\)) of the
beer ads.  Draft horses figured prominently in the great expansion of the
English coal mines from the 14th to 18th centuries. They both pumped the mines
and transported the coal to navigable water.  Due to lack of horsepower for
pumping and transport, the Chinese use of coal, though already well
established by the 13th century visit of Marco Polo, where both mine and
consumer were within short human-porter distance to navigable water, failed to
grow beyond that limit until the coming of the railroad.  Similarly draft
horses, alongside the more famous water-mills, played a key role in the early
(pre-steam) exponential growth of the English textile industry, the
economically dominant feature of the early industrial revolution.  
  
Greater use of draft animals led to higher labor productivity and larger
markets for agricultural output, and thus to greater agricultural
specialization. Higher labor productivity implies higher per capita income,
even if it can't be measured. For civilizations outside Western Europe by
contrast, much less use was made of draft animals with the result that these
effects were confined to within a dozen or less miles of navigable water.  
  
Contrariwise, northern Europe has always been at a severe ecological
disadvantage to warmer climates when it comes to growing rice, cotton, sugar,
and most other economically important crops.  However these seem not to have
had an anti-Malthusian effect in increasing labor productivity -- the
increased efficiency of rice in converting solar power to consumable calories,
for example, simply led to a greater population rather than a sustained
increase in per capita income.

Posted by  [ Nick Szabo ](https://www.blogger.com/profile/16820399856274245684
"author profile") at  [7:17
PM](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/11/european-asian-divergence-
predates.html "permanent link") [
![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon18_email.gif)
](https://www.blogger.com/email-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=3156615438018660301 "Email Post") [
![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon18_edit_allbkg.gif)
](https://www.blogger.com/post-
edit.g?blogID=17908317&postID=3156615438018660301&from=pencil "Edit Post")

[Email This](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=3156615438018660301&target=email "Email
This")[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=3156615438018660301&target=blog
"BlogThis!")[Share to Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=3156615438018660301&target=twitter "Share to
Twitter")[Share to Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=3156615438018660301&target=facebook "Share to
Facebook")[Share to Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=3156615438018660301&target=pinterest "Share to
Pinterest")

#### 6 comments:

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

Anonymous said...

    

Nice to see you posting! (Thank god for RSS readers.)

     [ 9:01 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/11/european-asian-divergence-predates.html?showComment=1384880497311#c3894119947451000530 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=3894119947451000530 "Delete Comment")

[![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)
](http://contemplationist.wordpress.com)

[Contemplationist](http://contemplationist.wordpress.com) said...

    

The last sentence just describes Malthusian dynamics. The question is, why
were the Malthusian constraints not broken out of in non-European
civilizations.

     [ 7:30 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/11/european-asian-divergence-predates.html?showComment=1386732604431#c5761715542178255329 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=5761715542178255329 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/08781329571394276520)

[morthogonal](https://www.blogger.com/profile/08781329571394276520) said...

    

Have you published any books? If not, do you plan on publishing any? I would
read just about anything you published.

     [ 10:50 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/11/european-asian-divergence-predates.html?showComment=1386744633928#c4160560817163010048 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=4160560817163010048 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/15758001805467131401)

[Timtak](https://www.blogger.com/profile/15758001805467131401) said...

    

There is an interesting book by Francesca Bray, "The Rice Economies:
Technology and Development in Asian Societies" that claims that the cooler
European climates required the use of animal manure, which lead to dairy
farming as a means to manure rather than dairy/beef, and may have lead to more
pack animals. Rice producers can use their own faeces, and ash, kitchen scraps
to feed their rice paddies. Bray goes on to argue that the cooperation between
wheat and dairy farmers, lead to increased specialisation, cooperation and the
industrial revolution. This is the opposite of the theory popular in Japan
where it is claimed that rice farming promotes cooperation due to the need for
communal irrigation. As Bray, and other Japanese writers, point out, many rice
farmers have their own little lake, their own paddy, and are completely self-
sufficient.  

     [ 4:45 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/11/european-asian-divergence-predates.html?showComment=1394153146544#c7181500750615057823 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=7181500750615057823 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/11920109042402850214)

[Steve Sailer](https://www.blogger.com/profile/11920109042402850214) said...

    

Thanks. Great picture of the draft horse. A half decade ago I ran into a lady
riding a Clydesdale on the beach: the sheer scale of the beast was remarkable.  
  
The European achievement in animal breeding seems pretty central, but it's
seldom referenced. Thanks for all the links -- I'll have to follow up on them.

     [ 12:27 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/11/european-asian-divergence-predates.html?showComment=1396337239334#c7251900807686240308 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=7251900807686240308 "Delete Comment")

[![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif) ](http://www.psi-print.net)

[Mr.Diego Wang](http://www.psi-print.net) said...

    

@admin I am the new to comment:  
  
  
There is an intriguing book by Francesca Bray, "The Rice Economies: Technology
and Development in Asian Societies" that claims that the cooler European
atmospheres required the utilization of creature excrement, which prompt dairy
cultivating as a way to compost as opposed to dairy/hamburger, and may have
prompt more pack creatures. Rice makers can utilize their own defecation, and
fiery remains, kitchen scraps to bolster their rice paddies. Whinny goes ahead
to contend that the participation in the middle of wheat and dairy
agriculturists, lead to expanded specialization, collaboration and the modern
insurgency. This is the inverse of the hypothesis well known in Japan where it
is guaranteed that rice cultivating elevates participation because of the
requirement for public watering system.  
  
Regard's  
Mr.Diego Wang  

     [ 3:59 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/11/european-asian-divergence-predates.html?showComment=1459940350084#c2585983947712453145 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=2585983947712453145 "Delete Comment")

[Post a
Comment](https://www.blogger.com/comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=3156615438018660301)

[Newer Post](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/07/tweeting.html "Newer
Post") [Older Post](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/08/political-
relationships.html "Older Post") [Home](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/)

Subscribe to: [Post Comments
(Atom)](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/feeds/3156615438018660301/comments/default)

## Pages

  * [Home](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/)

## About Me

[ Nick Szabo ](https://www.blogger.com/profile/16820399856274245684)

    "A premier thinker about history, law and economics, and the lessons they have for security." -- Adam Shostack, [Emergent Chaos ](http://www.emergentchaos.com/archives/2005/12/nick_szabo_blog.html)   
  
"Szabo comes out with these essays that leave me in awe." -- [Brian
Dunbar](http://space4commerce.blogspot.com/2011/06/tab-clearing_14.html)  
  
"Reading material that is eclectic, challenging and endlessly fascinating."
\-- Sean McGrath,
[Propylon](http://seanmcgrath.blogspot.com/2004_05_09_seanmcgrath_archive.html)  
  
"Like most blogs worth my attention, this blog is updated only infrequently.
That is because the authors of blogs worth my attention only post when they
have something to say that is true, relevant and not already known by their
audience. Most of the human race does not have the skill to know when an idea
has these three properties. The skill is particularly rare in the fields of
politics and economics, which is why this blog is such a rare and valuable
thing." \-- [Richard Hollerith](http://dl4.jottit.com/)  
  

[View my complete
profile](https://www.blogger.com/profile/16820399856274245684)

## Blog Archive

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2018 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2018/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2018/03/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2017 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/03/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/02/) (2)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2016 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/03/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/02/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2015 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/10/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2014 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/10/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/07/) (1)

  * [ ▼ ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2013 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/) (3)
    * [ ▼ ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/11/) (1)
      * [European-Asian divergence predates the industrial ...](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/11/european-asian-divergence-predates.html)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/08/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/07/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2012 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/) (8)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/10/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/08/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/) (4)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2011 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/) (12)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/06/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/05/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/02/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/01/) (4)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2010 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/) (9)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/10/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/09/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/02/) (2)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2009 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/) (29)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/11/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/10/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/09/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/08/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/06/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/05/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/04/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/01/) (3)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2008 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/) (55)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/12/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/10/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/09/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/08/) (9)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/07/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/06/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/05/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/04/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/03/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/02/) (5)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/01/) (3)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2007 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/) (47)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/10/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/09/) (8)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/08/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/07/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/06/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/05/) (8)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/04/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/03/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/02/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/01/) (3)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2006 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/) (130)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/12/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/11/) (7)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/10/) (15)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/09/) (15)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/08/) (20)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/07/) (5)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/06/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/05/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/04/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/03/) (11)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/02/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/01/) (26)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2005 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/) (44)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/12/) (16)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/11/) (5)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/10/) (23)

|  
  
---|---  
  
Simple theme. Powered by [Blogger](https://www.blogger.com).

  *[7:17 PM]: 2013-11-18T19:17:00-08:00

