For better experience, please enable JavaScript.

[Multicoin Capital](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * Media
  * More
  * [Contact](/contact/)

![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

  * [English](/2019/10/29/exchanges-are-open-finance/)
  * [中文](/zh/2019/10/29/exchanges-are-open-finance/)
  * [한국어](/ko/2019/10/29/exchanges-are-open-finance/)
  * 日本語

![](data:image/png;base64,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)

### Search posts

dark mode

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

  * [Archives](https://github.com/multicoincapital/crypto-archives)
  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)

[Writing](/blog/category/blog/)

## Exchanges Are Open Finance

By [Kyle Samani](/about#225b2112-7be1-5fc9-8755-db7e245ba5a5)

October 29, 2019 | 11 minute read

![Copy URL to clipboard
button](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyB4bWxucz0iaHR0cDovL3d3dy53My5vcmcvMjAwMC9zdmciIHdpZHRoPSIxNSIgaGVpZ2h0PSIxNSIgdmlld0JveD0iMCAwIDQ0NCA0NDQiIHN0eWxlPSJlbmFibGUtYmFja2dyb3VuZDpuZXcgMCAwIDQ0Mi4yNDYgNDQyLjI0NjsiPgoJPHBhdGggZmlsbD0iI2ZmZiIgZD0iTTQwOS42NTcsMzIuNDc0Yy00My4xNDYtNDMuMTQ2LTExMy44MzItNDMuMTQ2LTE1Ni45NzgsMGwtODQuNzYzLDg0Ljc2MmMyOS4wNy04LjI2Miw2MC41ODktNi4xMiw4OC4xMjksNi43MzIKCQlsNDQuMDYzLTQ0LjA2NGMxNy4xMzYtMTcuMTM2LDQ0Ljk4Mi0xNy4xMzYsNjIuMTE4LDBjMTcuMTM2LDE3LjEzNiwxNy4xMzYsNDQuOTgyLDAsNjIuMTE4bC01NS4zODYsNTUuMzg2bC0zNi40MTQsMzYuNDE0CgkJYy0xNy4xMzYsMTcuMTM2LTQ0Ljk4MiwxNy4xMzYtNjIuMTE5LDBsLTQ3LjQzLDQ3LjQzYzExLjAxNiwxMS4wMTcsMjMuODY4LDE5LjI3OCwzNy4zMzIsMjQuNDgKCQljMzYuNDE1LDE0LjM4Miw3OC42NDMsOC44NzQsMTEwLjQ2Ny0xNi4yMTljMy4wNi0yLjQ0Nyw2LjQyNi01LjIwMSw5LjE4LTguMjYybDU3LjIyMi01Ny4yMjJsMzQuNTc4LTM0LjU3OAoJCUM0NTMuMTA5LDE0Ni4zMDYsNDUzLjEwOSw3NS45MjYsNDA5LjY1NywzMi40NzR6Ii8+Cgk8cGF0aCBmaWxsPSIjZmZmIiBkPSJNMTg0LjEzNSwzMjAuMTE0bC00Mi4yMjgsNDIuMjI4Yy0xNy4xMzYsMTcuMTM3LTQ0Ljk4MiwxNy4xMzctNjIuMTE4LDBjLTE3LjEzNi0xNy4xMzYtMTcuMTM2LTQ0Ljk4MSwwLTYyLjExOAoJCWw5MS44LTkxLjc5OWMxNy4xMzYtMTcuMTM2LDQ0Ljk4Mi0xNy4xMzYsNjIuMTE5LDBsNDcuNDMtNDcuNDNjLTExLjAxNi0xMS4wMTYtMjMuODY4LTE5LjI3OC0zNy4zMzItMjQuNDgKCQljLTM4LjI1LTE1LjMtODMuMjMyLTguMjYyLTExNS4zNjIsMjAuNTAyYy0xLjUzLDEuMjI0LTMuMDYsMi43NTQtNC4yODQsMy45NzhsLTkxLjgsOTEuNzk5CgkJYy00My4xNDYsNDMuMTQ2LTQzLjE0NiwxMTMuODMyLDAsMTU2Ljk3OWM0My4xNDYsNDMuMTQ2LDExMy44MzIsNDMuMTQ2LDE1Ni45NzgsMGw4Mi45MjctODMuODQ1CgkJQzIzMC4wMzUsMzM1LjcxOSwyMjAuMjQzLDMzNC40OTYsMTg0LjEzNSwzMjAuMTE0eiIvPgo8L3N2Zz4K)

**Disclosures:** _Multicoin has established, maintains and enforces written
policies and procedures reasonably designed to identify and effectively manage
conflicts of interest related to its investment activities. Multicoin Capital
abides by a “No Trade Policy” for the assets listed in this report for 72
hours (“No Trade Period”) following its public release. No officer, director
or employee shall purchase or sell any of the aforementioned assets during the
No Trade Period. At the time of publication of this report, Multicoin Capital
is long Torus (a private company without a token), and exchange tokens,
including BNB and LEO._

The largest profit centers of crypto—the exchanges—are generally under
analyzed from a strategic lens, especially given their systemic importance to
the space as a whole. This is especially true given that the public can invest
in the success of the exchanges through each exchange’s respective token (with
the exceptions of the US-based exchanges, BitMEX, and Deribit).

Crypto commentators like to discuss what can cause the exchanges to stumble
and fall. But the questions that almost no one asks are: What can the market
reasonably expect exchanges to do over the coming years to consolidate even
more power? What if the exchanges haven’t peaked, but instead are only in the
beginning stages of their ascent?

Note: for the remainder of this essay, when I use the term “exchanges,” I’m
referring to non-US exchanges, with [Binance](https://www.binance.com/en
"Binance"), [Bitfinex](https://www.bitfinex.com/ "Bitfinex"),
[BitMEX](https://www.bitmex.com/ "Bitmex"), [CoinFLEX](https://coinflex.com/
"Coinflex"), [Deribit](https://www.deribit.com/ "Deribit"),
[FTX](https://ftx.com/ "FTX"), [KuCoin](https://www.kucoin.com/ "KuCoin"),
[Huobi](https://www.huobi.us/ "Huobi"), and [OKEx](https://www.okex.com/
"OKEx") being the top-of-mind examples. Given the regulatory regime in the US,
it’s difficult to see US-based exchanges executing on the vision outlined
below.

### When Capital Aggregates

Exchanges are naturally subject to network effects because traders want to
trade on the most liquid venues. While there are [some
limits](https://multicoin.capital/2018/05/09/on-the-network-effects-of-stores-
of-value/ "On the Network Effects of Stores of Value") to the network effects
of liquidity as arbitrageurs can bridge liquidity pools, the network effects
are real (hence why so many upstart exchanges have failed to gain traction).
As a result of the network effect of liquidity, capital aggregates on
exchanges. It’s
[estimated](https://www.theblockcrypto.com/genesis/39893/binance-holds-more-
than-3-billion-in-customers-cryptocurrencies-trailed-by-huobi-and-bitfinex
"Binance holds more than $3 billion in customers' cryptocurrencies, trailed by
Huobi and Bitfinex") that 4.73% of BTC and 8.66% of ETH are held on the top 7
exchanges.

Crypto exchanges have been steadily expanding their purview. Most of them
started by trading spot assets. Then they started adding more advanced trading
features such as lending, margin trading, and futures. While these products
are very much in the purview of traditional exchange businesses, the crypto
exchanges have also launched new business lines that are outside the scope of
traditional exchange businesses. A few examples:

  1. Bitfinex acquired [Tether](https://tether.to/ "Tether") in 2014, which has become a [vital](https://www.coindesk.com/tether-usdt-russia-china-importers "Millions in Crypto Is Crossing the Russia-China Border Daily. There, Tether Is King") part of global crypto capital flows. Today, Tether is the dominant stablecoin by virtually every measure: market cap, liquidity, daily transaction volume, and addresses holding it.
  2. After the Chinese government [banned](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-bitcoin-ban/china-to-close-all-bitcoin-exchanges-by-end-september-yicai-idUSKCN1BP27C "China to close all bitcoin exchanges by end-September: Yicai") crypto trading in September 2017, Huobi and OkEx didn’t shut down. Although they did stop direct fiat-crypto trading, Huobi launched an [OTC trading app](https://otc.huobi.co/en-us/client/ "HuobiOTC"), which is analogous to [Local Bitcoins](https://localbitcoins.com/ "Local Bitcoins"). This app allows Chinese consumers to buy and sell crypto in a truly peer-to-peer way. They can even settle trades using Alipay and WeChat Pay. More recently, Binance [introduced](https://www.binance.com/en/support/articles/360034595132 "Binance Launches P2P Trading") a directly competitive offering. These OTC venues facilitate huge volumes, and are generally not reported in any of the official trading statistics.
  3. In the last year, Binance launched Binance Labs, which acts as both a venture fund and accelerator. Just as Y Combinator started with an early-stage accelerator program that has since gone downstream with a larger venture fund, Binance Labs has expanded downstream with Launchpad, an Initial Exchange Offering (IEO) platform. By underwriting IEOs, Binance has started competing as an investment bank. In the last six months, most of the major exchanges have followed Binance’s lead and launched an IEO product.

More recently, we’ve started seeing exchanges offer crypto-native financial
services:

  1. A few exchanges have launched or acquired decentralized exchanges (DEX): Coinbase acquired [Paradex](https://paradex.io/ "Paradex"), and Bitfinex built [Ethfinex](https://www.ethfinex.com/ "Ethfinex") in house. A few months ago, Binance launched Binance DEX as its own chain (rather than on top of an existing chain). Huobi and OKEx have announced their own chains, but haven’t launched them yet.
  2. Non-custodial wallets. Coinbase built [Coinbase Wallet](https://wallet.coinbase.com/ "Coinbase Wallet"), a non-custodial crypto wallet. Huobi did the same with [Huobi Wallet](https://www.huobiwallet.com/en/ "Huobi Wallet"). Binance acquired [Trust Wallet](https://trustwallet.com/ "Trust Wallet").
  3. Earning crypto-denominated yield. Poloniex began offering ATOM-staking rewards about 6 months ago, and Binance has quickly followed suit by rolling out an Earn tab that includes staking for XLM, NEO, TRX, STRAT, ONT, VET, KMD, ERD, FET, ONE and ALGO. Binance’s Earn tab also includes lending.

With this positioning, it’s clear that Binance is trying to help their
customers use crypto as a way to generate income. Note that this is basically
the same positioning that virtually all of the non-custodial wallet
aggregators are using (e.g. [crypto.com](https://crypto.com/en/index.html
"Crypto.com"), [Instadapp](https://instadapp.io/ "InstaDApp"),
[Nuo](https://nuo.network/ "Nuo Network"), [Argent](https://www.argent.xyz
"Argent"), etc.).

The trend is clear: Crypto exchanges are (re)building every major financial
service from 100- year-old services like lending to crypto-native services
like staking. What’s more, the pace at which exchanges are rolling out new
services is [accelerating](https://www.theblockcrypto.com/daily/42731/behind-
binances-20-news-announcements-in-h2-2019-its-ambition-to-retract-lost-
markets-and-snatch-new-one "Behind Binance's 20+ news announcements in H2 2019
lies a deep ambition to regain lost markets and snatch a new one").

Given their position as aggregators of capital and their interest in building
both traditional and crypto-native financial services, the exchanges are
perfectly positioned to catalyze the adoption of [Open
Finance](https://multicoin.capital/2019/04/24/multicoin-investment-thesis/
"Crypto Mega Theses").

### Catalyzing Open Finance Adoption

Some of the initiatives highlighted below have already been announced. Others
are conjectures. While I can’t know with certainty what each exchange will do,
given the trends highlighted above, the salient question is: Why won’t
exchanges continue to expand their financial services offerings? The question
then is not if the exchanges will support these services, but the relative
order of operations for each exchange.

  1. In the [LEO white paper](https://www.bitfinex.com/wp-2019-05.pdf "Leo White Paper"), Bitfinex announced a few upcoming products, including a regulated securities exchange, and Betfinex, a prediction market platform (likely to be directly competitive with [Augur](https://www.augur.net/ "Augur")).
  2. The major crypto exchanges maintain custody of billions of dollars’ worth of assets. Someone will create a payment network that connects debit cards to the assets users store on exchanges, including stablecoins like USDT, USDC, BUSD, and DAI (crypto.com already offers a debit card for assets custodied with them). This is strategic for the exchanges as it creates more liquidity for their stablecoin/fiat pairs. Taking this a bit further, It’s pretty easy to imagine Binance offering discounts for customers who pay merchants with BUSD to catalyze adoption.
  3. With billions of dollars of assets in hand, it’s only natural for exchanges to offer interest-bearing accounts. The exchanges have a number of ways to enable this. They can stake assets on behalf of users (where applicable—some are already doing this), run internal money markets, or leverage open finance money market protocols. I’ll come back to money markets in the next section.
  4. Coupled with a lending market that automatically accrues interest to a customer’s Binance account, Binance will feel like a checking account to many (especially outside the developed world, where FDIC-like insurance is much less prevalent). Moreover, with P2P fiat-crypto on ramps, the crypto exchanges offer consumers a clear path to exit their existing fiat money systems—both in terms of technical infrastructure and monetary policy—and opt into the crypto financial system with permissionless and censorship-resistant payment rails and transparent and auditable monetary policy.
  5. If we think further into the future, once the exchanges offer interest-bearing accounts at large, they’ll start to think of themselves as banks. And if they think of themselves as banks, they’ll start to offer credit. While there are many forms of credit they can offer, they’ll likely start with small lines of credit—in the form of secured credit cards—before eventually moving into unsecured credit and larger lines of credit.

I can keep going, but I think the point is clear: The exchanges aggregate
capital, and they can strongly influence where and how that capital flows.
Moreover, because most of the exchanges have native tokens that reward users
for staying in their respective ecosystems, both the exchanges and their users
are incentivized to… build in and stay in their respective ecosystems!

Now, let’s revisit money markets and consider forking in open systems.

### To Fork or Not To Fork

Rather than hosting internal money markets, it’s in the best interest of the
exchanges to leverage open finance protocols so they can aggregate external
liquidity to offer better rates for their clients. However, it’s less clear if
exchanges will provide liquidity to existing protocols like Compound, or
whether they’ll fork Compound and bootstrap competitive networks with their
own liquidity pools.

Given how much larger the exchanges are than standalone liquidity pools like
Compound, I suspect the exchanges will fork Compound and create their own
pools so they can exercise more control, and create more value for holders of
their respective tokens (e.g. by funneling profits from the money market to
holders of their respective exchange tokens instead of a third party like
Compound equity holders).

To make this more tangible, let’s consider Binance, which has already released
the centerpiece of its open finance strategy: Binance Chain. On top of the
base chain, one can start to see the rest of the strategy come into focus:
Binance will leverage Trust Wallet as the preferred (though not exclusive) way
to interact with Binance Chain. They’ll probably want to leverage key
management systems like [Torus](https://tor.us/ "Torus") (from Binance Labs
Season 1 accelerator class) for [seamless key
management](https://multicoin.capital/2019/07/09/our-investment-in-torus/ "Our
Investment in Torus").

They’ll either fork Compound and Maker themselves—or incentivize others to do
so via [Binance X](https://binancex.dev/collab_rfps.html "Binance x")—to bring
these protocols into the Binance Chain ecosystem, and direct the natural
profits of those protocols to BNB holders. This in turn incentivizes more
people to hold BNB and trade on Binance (Chain), increasing liquidity for all
ecosystem participants, and creating more value for BNB holders in a virtuous
cycle.

Note: a valid counter to this is that Ethereum is more trust-minimized than
Binance Chain, which both 1) requires trusted gateways to bridge non-native
assets, and 2) still has relatively permissioned consensus. However, there are
pretty clear solutions to both of those problems in the form of Cosmos’s Inter
Blockchain Communication (IBC) protocol, and permissionless Tendermint
consensus. I expect other exchanges that don’t launch their own ecosystem
chains to fork protocols like Compound and keep the forks on Ethereum,
preserving the same trust-minimization guarantees, while leveraging their
existing liquidity to bootstrap network effects.

What I’ve described above in many respects sounds unfeasible. How can it be
possible for a single company to offer all of these services, when each of the
markets above is comprised of dozens of disparate companies in the legacy
financial system?

There are, broadly speaking, two reasons why crypto is different.

First, it’s crypto! When all forms of value transfer—currencies, commodities,
bonds, equities, etc.—are powered by a permissionless and censorship-resistant
API on an open ledger with generic, universal, reusable, and composable smart
contracts, it becomes at least 10x easier to build financial services. This is
a major reason why Binance has been able to move so much more quickly than
legacy financial services companies.

Second, it’s unlikely that a single company will build all of these services.
The exchanges are going to push development out to the community, and
encourage developers to build in their respective ecosystems that are powered
by their respective ecosystem tokens (as noted above, this can be on a
separate chain, or on neutral chains). Moreover, they will aggressively fork
other people’s open source code (e.g. Compound and Maker) because the source
of network effect in all of these systems is [capital, not
code](https://multicoin.capital/2019/03/14/on-value-capture-at-layers-1-and-2/
"On Value Capture at Layers 1 and 2").

This will happen more quickly than people expect: Binance is offering
[developers
grants](https://www.binance.com/en/blog/372982400902205440/Introducing-
Binance-X "Introducing Binance X") to port Open Finance protocols to Binance
Chain today. This is happening everywhere in crypto: Open Libra [forking
Libra](https://www.coindesk.com/new-libra-fork-will-create-permissionless-
stablecoin-free-of-corporate-control "New Libra Fork Will Create
Permissionless Stablecoin Free of Corporate Control"), Solana [implementing
Libra’s Move VM](https://medium.com/solana-labs/solana-now-supports-libras-
move-vm-f5fabaf3033c "Solana Now Supports Libra’s Move VM"), Tezos
[implementing Cosmos’s Tendermint
consensus](https://twitter.com/tendermint_team/status/1108951845764894720
"Tendermint Twitter"), Tezos [implementing Zcash’s SNARK
circuits](https://twitter.com/JacobArluck/status/1164499811267223553?s=20
"Jacob Arluck Twitter"), Solana [leveraging](https://medium.com/solana-
labs/replicators-solanas-solution-to-petabytes-of-blockchain-data-storage-
ef79db053fa1 "Replicators — Solana’s Solution to Petabytes of Blockchain Data
Storage") Filecoin’s PoReps, and more. The primary beneficiaries of this
recombinant forking will be entities and ecosystems that are already subject
to network effects, like Binance’s.

### From Companies to DAOs

To Open Finance believers, everything I’ve described above sounds… like the
antithesis of Open Finance. Indeed, I felt similarly uncomfortable the first
time I reasoned through all of this: What if the centralized exchanges
aggregate all the capital and don’t decentralize?

However, due to regulations I increasingly find it unlikely that centralized
exchanges can aggregate all the capital and financial services under one
economic system. As the exchanges accrue more power, they’ll increasingly
become subject to an array of contradictory regulations. Politicians will rip
them apart. See Libra.

The best way for the exchanges to survive in the long run is to decentralize
themselves. Tokens are the only way to achieve the political and architectural
decentralization necessary to be maximally resilient. Tokens achieve this by
unifying disparate and distrusting parties with shared economic alignment.

Today, the exchanges are centralized companies. But they’re slowly
[evolving](https://twitter.com/jessewldn/status/1147605223000682496?s=20
"Jesse Walden Twitter") into DAOs.

Decentralization is not binary. Decentralization is a spectrum. Therefore
decentralization does not occur at a point in time, but as a process. As of
now, Binance is the most evolved in this transition, but it has only barely
started the process.

Today, exchanges are the best-positioned entities to onboard billions of users
into crypto. As they morph into DAOs, the early participants in their
respective ecosystems are likely to be rewarded.

 _Hat tip to[Jesse Walden](https://twitter.com/jessewldn "Jesse Walden
Twitter"), [Micky Malka](https://twitter.com/mickymalka "Mickey Malka
Twitter"), [Nick Grossman](https://twitter.com/nickgrossman "Nick Grossman"),
and [Nick Shalek](https://twitter.com/nshalek "Nick Shalek") for providing
feedback on this essay._

+ Show More

[Read NextWelcoming Tony Sheng and The Next Steps For Multicoin
Capital](/2019/10/01/welcoming-tony-sheng/)

![Kyle
Samani](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/4OF6ywwNnbQLmD5qsIQ9kF/29aa033b59f51bc65fff3729e6948fe4/kyle_samani__2_.jpg)

By [Kyle Samani](/about#225b2112-7be1-5fc9-8755-db7e245ba5a5)

[@kylesamani](https://twitter.com/KyleSamani)

More Tags

[Writing](/blog/category/blog/)[Featured](/blog/category/featured/)[Podcasts](/podcasts/)[Videos](/videos/)

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER FOR THE BEST INSIGHTS IN CRYPTO

[![phoenix](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/72L5sEuJXOA7PvWBZM540E/27909d6ff5cda80158665ca43514b11c/phoenix_logo_white.svg)Subscribe](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)

* * *

  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)

  * [Podcasts](/podcasts/)
  * [Videos](/videos/)
  * [Subscribe](https://multicoin.capital/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

### GET IN TOUCH

We’re always looking for compelling ideas, business, and partnership
opportunities. We also enjoy reading your feedback. If you’re submitting a
business proposal, please include a clear description and any resources that
could help us evaluate your opportunity.

[hello@multicoin.capital](mailto:hello@multicoin.capital)

* * *

![Multicoin
Capital](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyB4bWxucz0iaHR0cDovL3d3dy53My5vcmcvMjAwMC9zdmciIHdpZHRoPSI0OCIgaGVpZ2h0PSI0MSIgdmlld0JveD0iMCAwIDQ4IDQxIj4KICA8cGF0aCBpZD0icGhvZW5peF9sb2dvIiBkPSJNMzkuNSwxMy41NTJhMTguOTM2LDE4LjkzNiwwLDAsMCw1LjY3Ni0xLjUzMywxMy4wMjQsMTMuMDI0LDAsMCwwLDIuNzkxLTEuODgzTDQ4LDEwLjEwOHMtLjY3OC4zNC0xLjUyNC42OGE5LjI4Niw5LjI4NiwwLDAsMS0yLjM1MS40NTRjLTEuNjQ3LjE5My0zLjQuMzQ0LTQuODQ4LS42MjRBNy42MzgsNy42MzgsMCwwLDAsNDAuNiw5Ljg1NmMxLjcxMS0uOTc5LDMuNDA3LTIuMDM3LDQuMjY0LTMuOTFhMTMuOTM4LDEzLjkzOCwwLDAsMS0yLjAzMywxLjEsMjkuMjgsMjkuMjgsMCwwLDEtMy4wNDkuOTM0LDIwLjgyMywyMC44MjMsMCwwLDAsMS45NDktMi42MzMsMjQuNDE0LDI0LjQxNCwwLDAsMCwxLjEtMi43MThjLS4xNjkuMzM5LS41OTMuNTEtMS4yNywxLjE4OWE2LjYzNCw2LjYzNCwwLDAsMS0yLjU0MSwxLjM1OSwxOS43LDE5LjcsMCwwLDAsMS41MjMtMy4xMjRjLjE5LS42NDkuMzE5LTEuNDgzLjUxLTIuMDU3LS4wODUuMjU1LS43NjIuODQ5LTEuNDQsMS43ODRhMTEuNjIzLDExLjYyMywwLDAsMS0xLjg2MywxLjg2OXYtMS4xYTEuNzQ0LDEuNzQ0LDAsMCwwLS44NDctMS4zNTljLS43NjItLjM0LTEuNjk0Ljg0OS0xLjY5NC44NDlzMS4xLjA4NSwxLjE4Ni41MS0uOTMyLDEuMzU5LS45MzIsMS4zNTlsLjMzOS43NjRzMCw1LjAxMS0zLjgxMSw2LjQ1NS0zLjcyNiwyLjEyMy00LjA2NSwyLjYzM2MtLjU0MS44MTUuMTg0LDEuOTctLjIzMSwyLjc5NGEuODY5Ljg2OSwwLDAsMS0uMjQxLjMxMy45NzUuOTc1LDAsMCwxLTEuMTM4LS4wNDcsMi4xMzcsMi4xMzcsMCwwLDEtLjQ0My0uNzE1Yy0uNTQyLTEuMjE4LTEuNTYyLTMuNDM3LTEuNTYyLTMuNDM3YTExLjk0OCwxMS45NDgsMCwwLDEsMS45ODMtLjczM2MuNjI2LS4xLjYyNi45NDIuNjI2Ljk0MmwuMzE0LS43MzNhMS42MzcsMS42MzcsMCwwLDAtLjEtMS40NjVjLS4xLS4zMTQtLjgzNS0uNzMzLTMuMjM1LTEuNzc5YTQuMjQ0LDQuMjQ0LDAsMCwwLTIuNTExLS4zNzgsMS44NDgsMS44NDgsMCwwLDAtMS4wMDguNDc0LDExLjEyNiwxMS4xMjYsMCwwLDEsMS40ODgtLjA2NCw0LjEzMyw0LjEzMywwLDAsMSwxLjUwNi40OTNIMjEuNDk1Yy0xLjM1NywwLTIuMywxLjc3OS0yLjMsMS43NzlsLjgzNi0uNzMzYy43LS42MTgsMS42MjgtLjQxOCwyLjQtLjQxOS0uNDQzLDAtLjk1OC43MjctMS4xNTMsMS4wNjRhMy40NjgsMy40NjgsMCwwLDAtLjIxNywyLjY0MWMuMDIuMDE0LjAxMy0uMDIuMDEzLS4wNDMsMC0uNDE4LjUyMi0uODM3LjUyMi0uODM3bC0uMjA5LDEuMTUxYTUuODQ3LDUuODQ3LDAsMCwwLDAsMi4yYzAtLjMxNC43My0uOTQyLjczLS45NDJ2LjczM2ExLjU3NSwxLjU3NSwwLDAsMS0uMDU2LjM1MWMtLjAwOC4wMzEtLjAxOC4wNjYtLjAyOS4xYTEuMSwxLjEsMCwwLDEtMS40OTIuNC44NzQuODc0LDAsMCwxLS4yNDEtLjMxM2MtLjQxNi0uODI0LjMxLTEuOTc5LS4yMzEtMi43OTQtLjMzOS0uNTEtLjI1NC0xLjE4OS00LjA2NS0yLjYzM3MtMy44MTItNi40NTUtMy44MTItNi40NTVsLjMzOS0uNzY0cy0xLjAxNi0uOTM0LS45MzItMS4zNTksMS4xODYtLjUxLDEuMTg2LS41MVMxMS44NTYuODUsMTEuMDk0LDEuMTlhMS43NDUsMS43NDUsMCwwLDAtLjg0NywxLjM1OXYxLjFBMTEuNiwxMS42LDAsMCwxLDguMzg0LDEuNzg0QzcuNzA3Ljg0OSw3LjAyOS4yNTUsNi45NDUsMGMuMTkxLjU3NC4zMiwxLjQwOC41MSwyLjA1N0ExOS42NzQsMTkuNjc0LDAsMCwwLDguOTc4LDUuMTgxLDYuNjM4LDYuNjM4LDAsMCwxLDYuNDM3LDMuODIyYy0uNjc3LS42NzktMS4xLS44NDktMS4yNy0xLjE4OWEyNC42OTEsMjQuNjkxLDAsMCwwLDEuMSwyLjcxOEEyMC43LDIwLjcsMCwwLDAsOC4yMTYsNy45ODRhMjkuMjgxLDI5LjI4MSwwLDAsMS0zLjA1LS45MzUsMTMuOTM5LDEzLjkzOSwwLDAsMS0yLjAzMy0xLjFDMy45OSw3LjgxOSw1LjY4Nyw4Ljg3Nyw3LjQsOS44NTZhNy42NzMsNy42NzMsMCwwLDAsMS4zMjYuNzYxYy0xLjQ0OC45NjgtMy4yLjgxNy00Ljg0OC42MjRhOS4yOTEsOS4yOTEsMCwwLDEtMi4zNTEtLjQ1NEMuNjc4LDEwLjQ0NiwwLDEwLjEwNywwLDEwLjEwN2wuMDMyLjAyOWExMywxMywwLDAsMCwyLjc5MSwxLjg4M0ExOC45MTUsMTguOTE1LDAsMCwwLDguNSwxMy41NTJhNy4yLDcuMiwwLDAsMCwxLjI0MS4yMDdjLS42ODYsMS4xNDgtNi4xOSwyLjg3My03Ljc1OSwyLjkzNSwxLjI4NC4xNjYsMi41NjQuMzQzLDMuODU3LjQzOGExNC4wNzQsMTQuMDc0LDAsMCwwLDQuNTgtLjE0NmMyLjU0MS0uNjgsMS42MDktLjQyNSwxLjYwOS0uNDI1LS4xMjguMDM1LS40NTkuNzgtLjU0Mi45QTcuMDM5LDcuMDM5LDAsMCwxLDkuOTU3LDE5LjA5YTE5Ljk0NSwxOS45NDUsMCwwLDEtNC40NTEsMi42NTMuMTkxLjE5MSwwLDAsMC0uMTE3LjA4NmMuMjQyLjE2MS43MzYuMDcyLDEuMDExLjA1OWExMy43NzEsMTMuNzcxLDAsMCwwLDYuNDExLTIuMjA3LDQuMzM1LDQuMzM1LDAsMCwwLC45MDktLjU3MmwuMjU0LS4yNTVhMTEuNTcxLDExLjU3MSwwLDAsMC0uOTE2LDIuNCwxNS41ODMsMTUuNTgzLDAsMCwwLS4yOTMsNC43MjVjLjAxNC4zODQuMDE1Ljc3LjAyLDEuMTU0LDAsLjEwNi4wMi4yMTEuMDIuMzE3YTEwLjU5LDEwLjU5LDAsMCwwLC43MzktMS40OTJjLjI0Ni0uNS40OTUtLjk5NC43NTMtMS40ODVhMTAuNCwxMC40LDAsMCwxLDEuMjg2LTIuMTM5Yy43NjItLjg1LDEuMjctMS40NDQsMS4yNy0xLjQ0NGEzOS4zNjgsMzkuMzY4LDAsMCwwLC41OTMsNi42MjVsLjUwOCwxLjYxNGExNi4yNzIsMTYuMjcyLDAsMCwxLC41LTQuNSwxMC4xMSwxMC4xMSwwLDAsMSwxLjE5NC0yLjI5Yy4yNC42MTEuNDYsMS4yMzMuNjUyLDEuODYxYTUuNTQ4LDUuNTQ4LDAsMCwxLS4wNDIsMy4xNTMsOS4yNiw5LjI2LDAsMCwxLS42MSwxLjk1MWMtLjMzOS42OCwxLjE4Ni0uOTM0LDEuNDQtMS4zNTlzMS4zNTUtMi41NDgsMS4yNy0zLjQ4Mi41OTMtLjA4NS43NjIuNTk1YTQuNTgsNC41OCwwLDAsMS0uNDIzLDMuNjUyLDM3LjM2NCwzNy4zNjQsMCwwLDEtNC4wNjUsNS4xODJsMi4yODctMS41MjktMS40NCw0LjE2MkwyMi4xLDMzLjQ2NWwtMS4yNyw0Ljg0MXMyLjAxMy0zLjMxNywyLjExNy0zLjczN2MuMDczLS4yOTMuODQsNC45ODIsMS4wNDksNi40MzEuMjA4LTEuNDQ5Ljk3Ni02LjcyNCwxLjA0OS02LjQzMS4xLjQyLDIuMTE3LDMuNzM3LDIuMTE3LDMuNzM3TDI1LjksMzMuNDY1bDIuNjI1LDMuMDU4LTEuNDQtNC4xNjIsMi4yODcsMS41MjlBMzcuMzcyLDM3LjM3MiwwLDAsMSwyNS4zLDI4LjcwOGE0LjU3Niw0LjU3NiwwLDAsMS0uNDIzLTMuNjUyYy4xNjktLjY4Ljg0Ny0xLjUyOS43NjItLjU5NXMxLjAxNiwzLjA1NywxLjI3LDMuNDgyLDEuNzc4LDIuMDM5LDEuNDQsMS4zNTlhOS4zMSw5LjMxLDAsMCwxLS42MS0xLjk1MUE1LjU0Nyw1LjU0NywwLDAsMSwyNy43LDI0LjJjLjE5MS0uNjI5LjQxMi0xLjI1LjY1Mi0xLjg2MWExMC4wNzUsMTAuMDc1LDAsMCwxLDEuMTk0LDIuMjksMTYuMjc0LDE2LjI3NCwwLDAsMSwuNSw0LjUwNWwuNTA4LTEuNjE0YTM5LjM3NSwzOS4zNzUsMCwwLDAsLjU5My02LjYyNXMuNTA4LjU5NCwxLjI3LDEuNDQ0QTEwLjQxMSwxMC40MTEsMCwwLDEsMzMuNywyNC40NzZjLjI1OC40OTEuNTA4Ljk4OS43NTMsMS40ODZhMTAuNjIxLDEwLjYyMSwwLDAsMCwuNzM5LDEuNDkyYzAtLjEwNi4wMTgtLjIxMS4wMi0uMzE3LDAtLjM4NC4wMDYtLjc3LjAyLTEuMTU0YTE1LjU4MywxNS41ODMsMCwwLDAtLjI5Mi00LjcyNSwxMS41ODcsMTEuNTg3LDAsMCwwLS45MTYtMi40bC4yNTQuMjU1YTQuMjY4LDQuMjY4LDAsMCwwLC45MDkuNTcyQTEzLjc3MSwxMy43NzEsMCwwLDAsNDEuNiwyMS44ODljLjI3NS4wMTIuNzY5LjEsMS4wMTEtLjA2YS4xODcuMTg3LDAsMCwwLS4xMTctLjA4NiwxOS45MjksMTkuOTI5LDAsMCwxLTQuNDUxLTIuNjUzLDcuMDYsNy4wNiwwLDAsMS0xLjUyOC0xLjYyOWMtLjA4My0uMTE5LS40MTQtLjg2NC0uNTQyLS45LDAsMC0uOTMyLS4yNTUsMS42MDkuNDI1YTE0LjA3NywxNC4wNzcsMCwwLDAsNC41ODEuMTQ2YzEuMjkzLS4xLDIuNTcyLS4yNzIsMy44NTctLjQzOC0xLjU3LS4wNjItNy4wNzQtMS43ODctNy43Ni0yLjkzNUE3LjI1NCw3LjI1NCwwLDAsMCwzOS41LDEzLjU1MloiIGZpbGw9IiNmZmYiLz4KPC9zdmc+Cg==)

## Multicoin Capital

©2017-2021 Multicoin Capital. All Rights Reserved.

