For better experience, please enable JavaScript.

[Multicoin Capital](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * Media
  * More
  * [Contact](/contact/)

![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

  * [English](/2019/12/19/fall-2019-multicoin-summit-recap/)
  * [中文](/zh/2019/12/19/fall-2019-multicoin-summit-recap/)
  * [한국어](/ko/2019/12/19/fall-2019-multicoin-summit-recap/)
  * 日本語

![](data:image/png;base64,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)

### Search posts

dark mode

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

  * [Archives](https://github.com/multicoincapital/crypto-archives)
  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)

## Fall 2019 Multicoin Summit Recap (VIDEOS)

By [John Robert Reed](/about#6fc07476-9152-5e21-9896-56714c96acf7)

December 19, 2019 | 7 minute read

![Copy URL to clipboard
button](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyB4bWxucz0iaHR0cDovL3d3dy53My5vcmcvMjAwMC9zdmciIHdpZHRoPSIxNSIgaGVpZ2h0PSIxNSIgdmlld0JveD0iMCAwIDQ0NCA0NDQiIHN0eWxlPSJlbmFibGUtYmFja2dyb3VuZDpuZXcgMCAwIDQ0Mi4yNDYgNDQyLjI0NjsiPgoJPHBhdGggZmlsbD0iI2ZmZiIgZD0iTTQwOS42NTcsMzIuNDc0Yy00My4xNDYtNDMuMTQ2LTExMy44MzItNDMuMTQ2LTE1Ni45NzgsMGwtODQuNzYzLDg0Ljc2MmMyOS4wNy04LjI2Miw2MC41ODktNi4xMiw4OC4xMjksNi43MzIKCQlsNDQuMDYzLTQ0LjA2NGMxNy4xMzYtMTcuMTM2LDQ0Ljk4Mi0xNy4xMzYsNjIuMTE4LDBjMTcuMTM2LDE3LjEzNiwxNy4xMzYsNDQuOTgyLDAsNjIuMTE4bC01NS4zODYsNTUuMzg2bC0zNi40MTQsMzYuNDE0CgkJYy0xNy4xMzYsMTcuMTM2LTQ0Ljk4MiwxNy4xMzYtNjIuMTE5LDBsLTQ3LjQzLDQ3LjQzYzExLjAxNiwxMS4wMTcsMjMuODY4LDE5LjI3OCwzNy4zMzIsMjQuNDgKCQljMzYuNDE1LDE0LjM4Miw3OC42NDMsOC44NzQsMTEwLjQ2Ny0xNi4yMTljMy4wNi0yLjQ0Nyw2LjQyNi01LjIwMSw5LjE4LTguMjYybDU3LjIyMi01Ny4yMjJsMzQuNTc4LTM0LjU3OAoJCUM0NTMuMTA5LDE0Ni4zMDYsNDUzLjEwOSw3NS45MjYsNDA5LjY1NywzMi40NzR6Ii8+Cgk8cGF0aCBmaWxsPSIjZmZmIiBkPSJNMTg0LjEzNSwzMjAuMTE0bC00Mi4yMjgsNDIuMjI4Yy0xNy4xMzYsMTcuMTM3LTQ0Ljk4MiwxNy4xMzctNjIuMTE4LDBjLTE3LjEzNi0xNy4xMzYtMTcuMTM2LTQ0Ljk4MSwwLTYyLjExOAoJCWw5MS44LTkxLjc5OWMxNy4xMzYtMTcuMTM2LDQ0Ljk4Mi0xNy4xMzYsNjIuMTE5LDBsNDcuNDMtNDcuNDNjLTExLjAxNi0xMS4wMTYtMjMuODY4LTE5LjI3OC0zNy4zMzItMjQuNDgKCQljLTM4LjI1LTE1LjMtODMuMjMyLTguMjYyLTExNS4zNjIsMjAuNTAyYy0xLjUzLDEuMjI0LTMuMDYsMi43NTQtNC4yODQsMy45NzhsLTkxLjgsOTEuNzk5CgkJYy00My4xNDYsNDMuMTQ2LTQzLjE0NiwxMTMuODMyLDAsMTU2Ljk3OWM0My4xNDYsNDMuMTQ2LDExMy44MzIsNDMuMTQ2LDE1Ni45NzgsMGw4Mi45MjctODMuODQ1CgkJQzIzMC4wMzUsMzM1LjcxOSwyMjAuMjQzLDMzNC40OTYsMTg0LjEzNSwzMjAuMTE0eiIvPgo8L3N2Zz4K)

 **Disclosure:** _Multicoin has established, maintains and enforces written
policies and procedures reasonably designed to identify and effectively manage
conflicts of interest related to its investment activities. Multicoin Capital
abides by a “No Trade Policy” for the assets listed in this report for 72
hours (“No Trade Period”) following its public release. No officer, director
or employee shall purchase or sell any of the aforementioned assets during the
No Trade Period. Multicoin is an investor in Bakkt, Skale, Helium, and
Arweave. At the time of publication, Multicoin Capital is also long BNB._

Our summits are deliberately thematic. They seek to opine on the major events
of the previous two quarters, shine a light on the most compelling
developments in the space, and pinpoint hardest questions left to solve.

Our most recent summit centered around three major discussions: the
institutional mindset with regard to crypto, the implications of exchange and
neo-bank innovation, and tangible evidence of growth during the doldrum. You
can see videos from the November 2019 Summit
[here](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCI0WoT9igEs564tOHDhu1AA/playlists
"Multicoin Capital Youtube Playlists "), and videos from our prior summits on
our Youtube [page](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCI0WoT9igEs564tOHDhu1AA
"Multicoin Capital Youtube").

The first theme is one that we’ve discussed at every nearly event since
inception. More recently, at our spring summit in Half Moon Bay, we invited
Chris Bartholomew of The UNC Management Company and Ray Hindi of L1 Digital to
share their knowledge and perspectives about [institutional portfolio
construction](https://youtu.be/a5Gu_pWv5OM "On Institutional Portfolio
Construction"). Building on that conversation this fall, we invited Marcos
Veremis, a Managing Director at [Cambridge
Associates](https://www.cambridgeassociates.com/ "Cambridge Associates")
(which has roughly $400 billion in assets under advisement), to talk us
through his landmark report, “[Cryptoassets: Venturing into the
Unknown](https://www.cambridgeassociates.com/research/cryptoassets-venture-
into-the-unknown/ "Cryptoassets: Venturing into the unkown"),” and explore how
he thinks about crypto exposure, portfolio construction, manager selection,
investment committee deliberation, and much, much more. This discussion,
guided by Tushar, is one of the most deep and insightful conversations on the
topic we’ve publicly had to date. It was definitely a highlight of the day.

Moving into the second track, exchanges were one of the most exciting spaces
to watch in 2019. Anyone that follows our blog closely knows that we’ve been
paying very close attention to the space since 2018. Building on our previous
research, Kyle published a new thesis on “[Exchanges are Open
Finance](https://multicoin.capital/2019/10/29/exchanges-are-open-finance/
"Exchanges are Open Finance ")” right before the summit, and at the event
presented a complementary presentation called “[Exchanges are Next Generation
Neo-Banks](https://youtu.be/I2IPutq5wa0 "Exchanges are next generation neo-
banks ").” Both are worth reading and watching within the same context. In
this presentation Kyle makes the argument that crypto payment rails—which are
global, open, censorship resistant, and permissionless—make the addressable
market for crypto-enabled financial services global. This was never possible
for financial services.

It wouldn’t be right to talk about exchanges without inviting the two
elephants in the room: Binance and Bakkt.

This time around we were fortunate to host Catherine Coley, the CEO of
Binance.us, for a wide ranging conversation covering the history of Binance,
her background, the company’s mega-vision, and what’s in store for the
Binance.us in the near term. Immediately following the summit, Tushar also
published “[Binance is
Blitzscaling.](https://multicoin.capital/2019/11/07/binance-is-blitzscaling/
"Binance is Blitzscaling ")” Many of the core ideas in this post are alluded
to and discussed further in his conversation with Catherine.

We were also fortunate to host [Adam White](https://twitter.com/whiteadaml
"Adam White"), the COO of [Bakkt](https://www.bakkt.com/index "Bakkt"), to
contribute to the conversation around exchanges. We’re proud investors in
Bakkt. To say the least, it’s been excited to watch them take off. In this
conversation, led by [Bobby Cho](https://twitter.com/robertjcho "Bobby Cho"),
the President and Partner of CMS Holdings, Adam talks about his early days at
Coinbase, wood-chopping culture, the backstory behind Bakkt’s grand debut, and
their future plans to enter the consumer market. Coincidently, this
conversation dovetails nicely with the discussion around the current
institutional mindset.

Beyond exchanges, in a first for us this year, we also welcomed a handful of
portfolio companies to show and tell. It’s easy to let the market and prices
distract from the real innovation in the space. We felt it was necessary to
prominently display some of the most compelling ideas that we’ve seen to date,
much of which are already live and working in the wild.

[Sam Williams](https://twitter.com/samecwilliams "Sam Williams "), the founder
of [Arweave](https://www.arweave.org/ "Arweave"), gave a math-packed talk on
how it’s possible to build a network that incentives participants to store
data forever. Permanence is at worst a foreign object to most and at best a
hard concept to grasp. Sam does an incredible job of explaining how, simply,
in pure economic terms, it's possible to create permanence as a new
development primitive using endowment-like thinking. Shortly following the
summit, on November 5, Arweave
[announced](https://techcrunch.com/2019/11/05/how-arweave-permaweb-works/ "How
Arweave Permaweb Works ") their seed round. Though we couldn’t say it at the
time, we participated in that round and invested alongside our friends at a16z
crypto and Union Square Ventures (you can read Multicoin’s Arweave investment
thesis [here](https://multicoin.capital/2019/11/05/investing-in-the-permaweb/
"Investing in the Permaweb")).

[Frank Mong](https://twitter.com/fmong "Frank Mong "), the COO of Helium, then
walked us through the incredible traction of the People’s Network ([over 1,800
hotspots](https://network.helium.com/coverage "Helium Coverage") now and still
counting). At this rate, Helium might go down as the fastest telecom rollout
in history. He also announced the [Patron
Program](https://www.helium.com/patron "Helium Patron Program") on stage, a
new way for network patrons to help on-board and manage city-scale hotspot
operations. I personally couldn’t be more excited about this. Atlanta, Chicago
and Denver already have super-patrons stepping up. And, most recently, Brad
Feld, the co-founder of Foundry Group, recently showed off his cache of 50
hotspots in Boulder. He’s looking for homes for 40 of them. Fill out this
[form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSer-3Jy-t6LmB2NQ2IHFWYasgaeZ6vxf5eVqmxeCNwSp6g3Pw/viewform
"Helium form ") for the opportunity to get one. You can also order one
[here](https://www.helium.com/store "Helium store"), but fair warning, there
is a limited supply.

[Jack O’Holleran](https://twitter.com/jackoholleran "Jack O'Holleran Twitter
"), the CEO and Co-Founder of [Skale](https://skale.network/ "Skale "),
followed Frank and walked us through the impressive growth of the Skale
Network. Currently in testnet, Skale is one of the most beloved projects in
the Ethereum community, and for good reason: it just works. Over the course of
this year it’s been incredible to watch Jack and his team summit one obstacle
after the next. We’re very excited to watch Skale come to market next year.
Watch this talk to hear what’s in store for the network in 2020.

And so, without further ado, below are the full videos from the Fall 2019
Multicoin Sumit. All of our talks from previous summits are also on our
youtube channel. Subscribe if you’d like to stay up to date with our latest.

### Opening Remarks, Presented by Tushar Jain

Tushar gave the opening remarks at the Fall 2019 summit. He covers the
significance of China entering the global crypto stage, the emergence of a new
international space race, and our [new strategic
hire](https://multicoin.capital/2019/12/05/welcoming-mable-jiang-to-multicoin-
capital/ "Welcoming Mable "), Mable Jiang, in Beijing.

![Play
Video](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

### Exchanges Are Next Generation Neo-Banks

Following the opening remarks, Kyle delivered a new presentation that outlines
the firm's thesis on the role of exchanges in the ecosystem and the emergence
of “Neobanks.”

![Play
Video](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

### Fireside Chat: Marcos Veremis, Cambridge Associates

Marcos Veremis, a Managing Director with Cambridge Associates, a global
investment firm that works with premier institutional investors, private
investors, and family offices, joined us for an hour following Kyle's
presentation to discuss his landmark report, "Cryptoassets: Venturing into the
Unknown." Interviewed by Tushar Jain, this conversation traverses everything
from institutional portfolio construction, to manager selection, to global-
economic investment theses.

![Play
Video](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

### Fireside Chat: Adam White, COO Bakkt

Adam White, the COO of Bakkt, one of the most promising companies in crypto
founded in 2018 by the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), the parent company of
the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), was our next keynote. Bakkt officially
launched on September 23, 2019. It is hailed as the most regulated
infrastructure for bitcoin markets and custody today. Interviewed by Bobby
Cho, president and partner at CMS Holdings and former head of DRW’s crypto
business, this conversation traverses the impact and implications of
physically-delivered BTC futures coming to market for the first time.

![Play
Video](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

### Arweave: Exploring the Implications of the Permanent Web with Sam Williams

Sam Williams, the CEO & Founder of Arweave, a novel data storage blockchain
protocol that enables a permanent, serverless web, will took the stage next to
discuss and the first-, second-, and third-order effects of creating a truly
permanent data storage mechanism for the first time.

![Play
Video](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

### Helium: Announcing the Helium Patron Program

Frank Mong, the COO of Helium, took the stage next to talk about Helium’s
incredible rollout since April 2019 and to announce the Helium Patron Program.

![Play
Video](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyB4bWxucz0iaHR0cDovL3d3dy53My5vcmcvMjAwMC9zdmciIHdpZHRoPSIxODUiIGhlaWdodD0iMjI1IiB2aWV3Qm94PSIwIDAgMTg1IDIyNSI+PGcgdHJhbnNmb3JtPSJ0cmFuc2xhdGUoMTg1KSByb3RhdGUoOTApIiBmaWxsPSIjZDhkOGQ4Ij48cGF0aCBkPSJNIDIyMy4yMjE1MTE4NDA4MjAzIDE4NCBMIDEuNzc4NDg1NjU1Nzg0NjA3IDE4NCBMIDExMi41IDEuOTI0NjIwODY2Nzc1NTEzIEwgMjIzLjIyMTUxMTg0MDgyMDMgMTg0IFoiIHN0cm9rZT0ibm9uZSIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0gMTEyLjUgMy44NDkyNTg0MjI4NTE1NjIgTCAzLjU1Njk3NjMxODM1OTM3NSAxODMgTCAyMjEuNDQzMDIzNjgxNjQwNiAxODMgTCAxMTIuNSAzLjg0OTI1ODQyMjg1MTU2MiBNIDExMi41IDAgTCAyMjUgMTg1IEwgMCAxODUgTCAxMTIuNSAwIFoiIHN0cm9rZT0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbD0iIzk3OTc5NyIvPjwvZz48L3N2Zz4=)

### Skale: The Path to Scaling Kilimanjaro

Jack O'Holleran, the CEO of Skale, presents an overview of Skale's elastic
blockchain network and touches on the most recent and upcoming milestones for
the project.

![Play
Video](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

### Closing Keynote: Catherine Coley, CEO Binance.US

Catherine Coley, the CEO of Binance.US, closed out this year's summit with a
tell-all since the company’s launch in September 2019.

![Play
Video](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

Special thanks go to [Julie](https://www.linkedin.com/in/juliemuroff/ "Julie
Muroff") and the [Blockworks](https://twitter.com/blockworksgroup "Blockworks
Group") crew, the entire team at [Cipriani](https://www.cipriani.com/
"Cipriani"), and [Matt](https://twitter.com/mattballen4791 "Matt Twitter ")
and [Roshun](https://twitter.com/roshunpatel "Roshun Patel Twitter") at
[Genesis Capital](http://twitter.com/GenesisTrading "Genesis Trading") for
helping make this event possible.

+ Show More

Subscribe to our **Youtube Channel** for the best insights in crypto

[Subscribe](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCI0WoT9igEs564tOHDhu1AA?sub_confirmation=1)

### More Videos

[Conversations From The 2021 Multicoin Summit
[VIDEOS]](/2021/12/17/conversations-from-the-2021-multicoin-summit/)[The
Stacks Podcast with Kyle Samani & Muneeb Ali (Blockstack
PBC)](/2020/05/04/the-stacks-podcast-with-kyle-samani-and-muneeb-ali/)[Kyle
Samani Speaks with BlockchainBrad about Crypto Investments ](/2019/11/29/kyle-
samani-speaks-with-blockchainbrad-about-crypto-investments/)[Laura Shin and
Kyle Samani discuss How 2020 Will Be the Year of Small Success
Stories](/2020/01/03/laura-shin-and-kyle-samani-discuss-how-2020-will-be-the-
year-of-small-success-stories/)[Unchained Podcast: Teetering on the Edge: How
Black Thursday Exposed the Flaws in the Crypto Markets -
Ep.164](/2020/03/23/unchained-podcast-how-black-thursday-exposed-the-flaws-in-
the-crypto-markets/)[Ben Sparango and Tony Sheng talk The Trust Spectrum on
the Chain Reaction Podcast](/2020/05/13/ben-sparango-and-tony-sheng-talk-the-
trust-spectrum-on-the-chain-reaction-podcast/)[Watch Fireside Chats with
Solana, Helium, Ribbit Capital from the Fall 2020 Multicoin Summit
](/2020/11/03/fall-2020-multicoin-summit/)[Blizscaling: How a Crypto Startup
Rapidly Grows a Global Business](/2019/11/28/blizscaling-how-a-crypto-startup-
rapidly-grows-a-global-business/)[Ethereal Virtual Summit 2020: Fireside Chat
with SKALE Labs](/2020/05/12/ethereal-virtual-summit-2020-fireside-chat-with-
skale-labs/)[Inside the Room at the Spring 2019 Multicoin Summit (Videos)
](/2019/05/14/spring-2019-multicoin-summit-videos/)[Multicoin Summit Panels:
Fall 2018](/2018/12/18/multicoin-summit-panels-fall-2018/)[Multicoin Summit:
the State of Dapp Development](/2018/06/08/multicoin-summit-the-state-of-dapp-
development/)[Multicoin Summit: Challenges and Opportunities for the
Tokenization of Securities](/2018/05/31/multicoin-summit-challenges-and-
opportunities/)

[Read NextChorus One and Kyle Samani Discuss the Crypto Mega
Theses](/2019/12/16/chorus-one-and-kyle-samani-discuss-the-crypto-mega-
theses/)

![John Robert
Reed](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/6jWCv8UL2kFPJizX6Lo2lh/718c8af0338d01af3ad120ffe8378314/john_robert__1_.jpg)

By [John Robert Reed](/about#6fc07476-9152-5e21-9896-56714c96acf7)

[@johnrobertreed](https://twitter.com/johnrobertreed)

More Tags

[Writing](/blog/category/blog/)[Featured](/blog/category/featured/)[Podcasts](/podcasts/)[Videos](/videos/)

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER FOR THE BEST INSIGHTS IN CRYPTO

[![phoenix](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/72L5sEuJXOA7PvWBZM540E/27909d6ff5cda80158665ca43514b11c/phoenix_logo_white.svg)Subscribe](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)

* * *

  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)

  * [Podcasts](/podcasts/)
  * [Videos](/videos/)
  * [Subscribe](https://multicoin.capital/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

### GET IN TOUCH

We’re always looking for compelling ideas, business, and partnership
opportunities. We also enjoy reading your feedback. If you’re submitting a
business proposal, please include a clear description and any resources that
could help us evaluate your opportunity.

[hello@multicoin.capital](mailto:hello@multicoin.capital)

* * *

![Multicoin
Capital](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

## Multicoin Capital

©2017-2021 Multicoin Capital. All Rights Reserved.

