[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Fetch.AI and Outlier Ventures Become Sovrin Stewards

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Fetch.AI and Outlier Ventures Become Sovrin Stewards

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_charlotte-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Charlotte Kapoor

Head of Strategic Partnerships

At Outlier Ventures Charlotte is responsible for building the profile of
Outlier Ventures by strengthening the connectedness in their ecosystem, from
founders and investors to academia and media. Charlotte is in the investment
committee at the firm, as well as overseeing communication for both Outlier
and their portfolio. Prior to working at Outlier Ventures Charlotte was a
Business Director at a range of different marketing agencies, helping clients
with product development, branding and growth. ...[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/charlotte-baker/)

# Convergence Stack integration strengthens as Fetch.AI and Outlier Ventures
Become Sovrin Stewards

Posted by Charlotte Kapoor - June 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_charlotte-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Charlotte Kapoor

Head of Strategic Partnerships

At Outlier Ventures Charlotte is responsible for building the profile of
Outlier Ventures by strengthening the connectedness in their ecosystem, from
founders and investors to academia and media. Charlotte is in the investment
committee at the firm, as well as overseeing communication for both Outlier
and their portfolio. Prior to working at Outlier Ventures Charlotte was a
Business Director at a range of different marketing agencies, helping clients
with product development, branding and growth. ...[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/charlotte-baker/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/asm-and-ov-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-asm/) [Why we
invested in Altered State Machine (ASM)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-
invested-in-asm/)

April 2022  
Jamie Burke

[ ![OutlierVenturesInvestsinLumerin](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/03/why-we-invested-in-lumerin-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-lumerin/) [Why
we invested in Lumerin](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-
lumerin/)

March 2022  
Jamie Burke

Stewards on the Sovrin network are responsible for write and read functions on
the Sovrin ledger. The new stewards include Fetch.AI and Outlier Ventures as
well as AyanWorks and One Global.

The network currently has stewards from 13 different countries around the
globe. Fetch.AI will be using the Sovrin network to provide its autonomous
agents self-sovereign identities so that they are able to interact with one
another in a trusted and secure environment. Outlier Ventures has been an
active advisor and investor in Sovrin network since its early days. Most
recently, we released the [ANVIL](https://medium.com/outlier-ventures-
io/anvil-a-fetch-ai-and-sovrin-bridge-5fb90f98c04) app in the convergence
stack with the intention of bridging Sovrin's verifiable credentials and
Fetch.AI's autonomous agents. More on the new stewards in [**this blog
post.**](https://sovrin.org/four-technology-trailblazers-become-stewards-of-
the-sovrin-network/)

Fetch.AI uses the Sovrin Network to provide its autonomous agents with self-
sovereign identities, so the agents are able to complete transactions in a
trusted, secure, and decentralized environment.

“We’re incredibly excited to be a Sovrin Steward,” said Toby Simpson, CTO of
Fetch.AI. “As a trusted operator of a node on the Sovrin Network, we have the
opportunity to further understand and integrate machine identity into
Fetch.AI. As this technology develops, autonomous agents will be able to
interact more and more with each other in a demonstrably trustworthy
environment to deliver the economic internet of the future. Both businesses
and consumers will benefit from the things in the world being able to prove
key aspects about themselves.”

[Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/) advises and supports the
development of technologies to form a new data economy, which has meant it has
been an active player in the evolution of the internet. The organization has
contributed greatly to the Sovrin Network and hopes to continue to do so by
attracting new developers, projects, and users to the network.
[ANVIL](https://medium.com/outlier-ventures-io/anvil-a-fetch-ai-and-sovrin-
bridge-5fb90f98c04), an app in Outlier Ventures’ [Convergence
Stack](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-convergence-stack/), bridges
the gap between Sovrin’s verifiable credentials and Fetch.AI’s autonomous
agents.

“We’re really excited to be part of the growing collection of Sovrin
Stewards,” said Aron van Ammers, CTO & Founding Partner of Outlier Ventures.
“We’ve been working with them since 2017 when we saw their work on digital
identity as the fundamental building block needed for anything meaningful to
happen in an increasingly decentralized Web. By becoming a Sovrin Steward,
Outlier Ventures will continue to champion self-sovereign identity, helping
solve the challenge in a scalable way to create a more equitable, open data
economy.”

“The Sovrin community welcomes AyanWorks, Fetch.AI, One Global, and Outlier
Ventures as the network’s newest Stewards,” said Heather Dahl, Executive
Director & CEO of the Sovrin Foundation. “We look forward to learning and
benefiting from their technical knowledge and expertise as we work together to
provide self-sovereign identity for all.”

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

