[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ 中文 ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [updates](../../../blog/updates)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Oct 5, 2020  

## Filecoin Frontier Accelerator launched by LongHash Ventures

LongHash Ventures has just announced the launch of the [Filecoin Frontier
Accelerator](https://www.longhashventures.com/filecoin/), a 12 week program to
fuel the growth of major projects on the world’s largest decentralized storage
network. LongHash Ventures is a recognized blockchain accelerator with a
global network established across key technological hubs including Singapore,
Shanghai, and Hong Kong.

Projects accepted to the Accelerator will receive an upfront grant of $20,000
USD and will also be considered for further funding opportunities of US $1
million investment or more, of which $500,000 is committed by [Fenbushi
Capital](https://fenbushi.vc/index_en.html), the first blockchain-focused
venture capital firm in Asia.

“Filecoin’s core value proposition as a decentralized storage network
exemplifies how blockchain continues to solve practical, real world pain
points. Having worked with over 100 leading blockchain projects and multiple
protocol communities over the years, we look forward to replicating our
success with Filecoin’s ecosystem to promote growth in a healthy and
sustainable manner.” - Bo Shen, General Partner at Fenbushi Capital.

Filecoin Frontier Accelerator welcomes projects who drive development and
adoption for Web 3.0 to contribute to the Filecoin platform, including
infrastructure providers, middleware solutions, and user applications across
the technology stack. Over the span of 12 weeks, shortlisted projects will be
provided with end-to-end support in areas including strategy formulation, go-
to-market execution, technological mentorship, marketing, and fundraising. The
program has already onboarded notable mentors from UNICEF Ventures, HashKey
Digital Asset Group and NGC Ventures.

The Filecoin Frontier Accelerator is now accepting applications through
November 15, with the program set to take place in February 2021. Learn more
and apply [here](https://www.longhashventures.com/filecoin/).

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You’ve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

