[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ 中文 ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [updates](../../../blog/updates)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Dec 3, 2019  

## Filecoin Dev Grants - Wave 1 recipients, Wave 2 now open

_Updated December 18th, 2019_

We are thrilled to have received many Dev Grant proposals from community
members in Wave 1 reflecting a wide range of project ideas using Filecoin. We
appreciate all proposals and hope to see more applications from enthusiastic
developer teams in the future.

### Wave 1: Community Projects

For our first round of Dev Grants, we asked for proposals in the following
categories: open-source community Block Explorers, Reputation Systems, Storage
Helper Libraries, Community Meetups, and an RSA Vector Commitments library, as
well as a general Open Dev Grant submission category.

We received 22 outstanding proposals, from which we selected 5 teams to work
on the following projects:

  * an open-source block explorer
  * a storage helper tool that splits and encrypts files and monitors deals
  * a miner analyzer & monitoring tool
  * a dynamically configurable storage backend tool
  * community meetups in Eastern Europe

**These projects will eventually be open sourced and shared with the community
in the** [**filecoin-shipyard**](https://github.com/filecoin-shipyard) **on
Github.**

Dev grant applicants included avid Filecoin community contributors, developers
with experience in other blockchains or with IPFS, as well as those new to the
community. We encourage teams not selected for a grant in Wave 1 to apply for
future Dev Grants.

Proposals were chosen based on factors including their near-term value to the
Filecoin network, ability to work independently of busy protocol
implementation teams, commitment to the ecosystem, and desire to maintain
projects longer-term.

Thank you to all the grant applicants who participated in Wave 1!

### Wave 2: New RFPs

Wave 2 is open!. Two new RFPs have been posted to the [Dev Grants Github
repo](https://github.com/filecoin-project/devgrants/tree/master/rfps). This
includes requests for an [Expected Consensus Visualization
Tool](https://github.com/filecoin-project/devgrants/blob/master/rfps/rfp-
consensus-visualization-tool.md) as well as a broader [Wallet
RFP](https://github.com/filecoin-project/devgrants/blob/master/rfps/rfp-
filecoin-wallets.md) with 2 tracks for 1) a Self-hosted Wallet and 2) Wallet
Tools & Integrations.

**Wave 2 proposals are now due Jan. 15th.** As Filecoin gears up for Testnet,
be on the lookout for more RFPs for community tools.

Looking for more ways to get involved with the Filecoin project? Consider
applying for an Open Dev Grant if you have an idea that isn’t covered by an
RFP. Also welcome are proof of concept explorations, user research or
developer research proposals or protocol-level topics (e.g. improving SNARKs,
verifiable subsets of languages for VMs, recording VMs more efficiently than
in state trees, etc.). Reach out to us if you’d like to discuss your idea by
visiting the [Dev Grants forum](https://discuss.filecoin.io/c/devgrants) or
ask in other [Filecoin Community channels](https://filecoin.io/#community).

As the Filecoin protocol implementations advance toward Testnet and Mainnet,
we hope community members suggest new proposals for projects to grow the
ecosystem. These projects not only help test the utility and usability of node
implementations, they also inspire thinking around important use cases for
future Filecoin users.

We’ll be in touch in 2020 when we announce the winners of Wave 2!

Have other questions? Feel free to reach out to us on
[chat](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#chat) or file an issue in
our [Dev Grants](https://github.com/filecoin-project/devgrants) repo.

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You’ve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

