[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ 中文 ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [updates](../../../blog/updates)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Sep 11, 2019  

## Filecoin Dev Grants Program now live – first wave closes September 30

Filecoin is much more than just a file storage network. It aims to be a
decentralized, robust, and efficient foundation for humanity’s information.
This vision is ambitious, and we can’t do it alone! The Filecoin network needs
a vibrant and diverse community of participants working together to build the
ecosystem of tools and services needed to improve Filecoin and make it usable
in countless real-world applications.

Today, we are delighted to announce the [Filecoin Dev Grants
Program](http://filecoin.io/grants). The Dev Grants Program aims to **reward**
ongoing and existing contributions that add great value to the Filecoin
ecosystem, **inspire** more contributors to solve open problems, and **seed**
the creation of new products, businesses, and tools that increase the utility
of Filecoin.

We are looking to fund talented and eager individuals and teams interested in
contributing to open-source. To get started, take a look at our existing
[Requests for Proposals (RFPs)](https://github.com/filecoin-
project/devgrants/tree/master/rfps). We are looking to fund developer tools,
user-facing applications, protocol improvements, and more. If you’re
interested in building something else, you can [submit a proposal to our Open
category](https://github.com/filecoin-project/devgrants#submit-a-proposal-for-
open-grants)!

We are currently accepting applications for the first wave of grants. The
first wave application cycle is **open now** and **closes September 30th,
2019**. [Please visit our GitHub repo to learn more about the proposal
process, open RFPs, review process, and more](https://github.com/filecoin-
project/devgrants). New RFPs may go live at any point, so watch the Dev Grants
repo to stay on top of our updated list of RFPs. We will be running
application cycles (“waves”) every 3 months.

The Dev Grants Program is only the beginning. We are excited to build a more
robust, efficient, and decentralized web with you!

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You’ve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

