[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ 中文 ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [updates](../../../blog/updates)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Jan 1, 2017  

## Filecoin 2017 Q4 Update: Community Updates, How You Can Help, Filecoin
Blog, and More

Dear Filecoin supporters, miners, users, investors, and broader community,

Since the completion of the token sale, we have been heads down turning
Filecoin’s tremendous potential into reality – from implementing the core
parts of the Filecoin protocol to growing our team with the best talent we can
find. Below is an update from our team, as well as a set of specific “asks”
for you, our community.

### Table of contents

  1. Community Updates - an Overview
  2. Asks - How You Can Help
  3. Launch of the Filecoin Blog
  4. Growth and Adoption of IPFS
  5. Launch of the SAFT project
  6. Growing the Team
  7. Filecoin Engineering & Development
  8. Investor SAFTs and Warnings
  9. CoinList
  10. Clients & Miners

### 1\. Community Updates - an Overview

These updates will keep the Filecoin Community up to date on the progress of
the Filecoin project and its [supporting
projects](https://protocol.ai/projects) (ie. [IPFS](https://ipfs.io/),
[libp2p](https://libp2p.io/), [the SAFT project](https://saftproject.com/),
and others). We will also ask for your help. Keep an eye out for explicit
“asks”, which highlight ways you can contribute to the success of Filecoin. We
plan to broadcast these updates periodically – at least once a quarter, and in
some cases more frequently. We will publish these to [our new
blog](https://filecoin.io/blog), and send them by email to our partners,
investors, prospective users & miners, and general subscribers.

Finally, we strongly encourage an open line of communication, with any
suggestions, ideas, questions, feedback, or other thoughts. Please use this
[suggestion
form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeMgVzmDramhx0UM7UtTOECd0rw5CTzhYrt5V3Hfrdor3Z1Iw/viewform?usp=sf_link)
or email us at [team@filecoin.io](mailto:team@filecoin.io) with your comments.
With thousands of people involved, we may take some time to respond, but we
will read your note. This year, as our team’s capacity grows and we get closer
to a testnet launch, we will open official community forums where the
discussion can blossom broadly.

### 2\. Asks - How You Can Help

We have a unique opportunity to leverage the collective knowledge,
capabilities, and networks of our formidable community to accelerate the
success of Filecoin. We will be asking for your help along several dimensions:
research problems, development and testing, organization building,
partnerships, recruiting, and more.

Here are some top priorities that our community can help us with in the short-
term:

  * Refer candidates to hire (see list of high priority open positions in [item 6 below](https://filecoin.io/blog/update-2017-q4/#6-growing-the-team))
  * Refer potential early storage users ([Filecoin Early Users](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdCOjMenUU7WtT54zeAivCS2nnaWYQIgaXh0eRdIdpi6Pwkew/viewform) form)
  * Refer potential early miners ([Filecoin Early Mining](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfdFpWhJj8OIGA2iXrT3bnLgVK9bgR_1iLMPdAcXLxr_1d-pw/viewform?c=0&w=1) form)
  * Ideas, Suggestions, anything else? Please fill out our [suggestion form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeMgVzmDramhx0UM7UtTOECd0rw5CTzhYrt5V3Hfrdor3Z1Iw/viewform?usp=sf_link)

Asks like these are typical in updates to project supporters, though perhaps
more typical in private communications. We choose to publish these broadly, as
we believe everybody in our community can contribute tremendously to the
success of Filecoin, and it is in our shared interest to do so. The success of
Filecoin will benefit all our community – miners, clients, partners, users,
researchers, investors, developers, and more. Naturally, we require more from
groups who have made strong commitments – such as developers and investors –
but we want everybody to feel invited and empowered to help!

### 3\. Launch of the Filecoin Blog

This update marks the launch of the new [Filecoin
Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/). We have cross-posted all Filecoin specific
posts from the [Protocol Labs Blog](https://protocol.ai/blog/), which we had
been using to publish Filecoin news. Henceforth, this will be the main channel
for Filecoin announcements.

We have lots of plans for this blog in 2018. Expect to see technical deep-
dives, explainers, event announcements, periodic updates like this one, and
more. If you would like to request certain kinds of posts, feel free to [send
us
suggestions](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeMgVzmDramhx0UM7UtTOECd0rw5CTzhYrt5V3Hfrdor3Z1Iw/viewform?usp=sf_link).

### 4\. Growth and Adoption of IPFS

IPFS and Filecoin are complementary protocols: IPFS addresses and moves
content, and Filecoin is the missing incentive structure. Continued
development of IPFS provides an important support layer for the Filecoin
Protocol and continued adoption of IPFS signals increasing market demand for a
faster, safer, decentralized storage service.

Over the past few months the IPFS Community and the IPFS Network have made
great strides. There were major releases for both go-ipfs
([0.4.11](https://github.com/ipfs/go-
ipfs/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#0411-2017-09-14),
[0.4.12](https://github.com/ipfs/go-
ipfs/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#0412-2017-11-09),
[0.4.13](https://github.com/ipfs/go-
ipfs/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#0413-2017-11-16)) and [js-
ipfs](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs) ([0.26.0](https://github.com/ipfs/js-
ipfs/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#0260-2017-09-13),
[0.27.0](https://github.com/ipfs/js-
ipfs/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#0270-2017-12-04)). People continue to build
exciting apps on IPFS. For example, OpenBazaar [shipped their 2.0 release,
powered by IPFS](https://www.openbazaar.org/blog/openbazaar-2-0-live/), and
[grew their network to 25,000
nodes](https://twitter.com/openbazaar/status/943853882488311809). There is a
new integration of [IPFS directly in the Brave
browser](https://twitter.com/brianbondy/status/943545536497504256).
[Computes](https://computes.io/) are building a distributed supercomputer with
IPFS. Researchers in Australia have put [Hadoop on
IPFS](https://www.cse.unsw.edu.au/~hpaik/thesis/showcases/16s2/scott_brisbane.pdf)
for peer-to-peer data analytics. It keeps getting easier to build applications
like these. [PeerPad](https://peerpad.net/) is an open source app (in alpha)
that shows how developers can use IPFS to build their own serverless, real-
time, offline-first collaborative dapps. [Cloudy](https://cloudy.community/)
is a GNU/Linux distribution built around decentralization and community
networks. More and more projects in the blockchain ecosystem rely on IPFS and
libp2p. New such projects include: [DTube](https://d.tube/), a decentralized
video platform; [Bloom](https://hellobloom.io/), a decentralized credit
scoring system; [Decentraland](https://decentraland.org/), a virtual reality
platform; and more. We have also seen IPFS appear in important sociopolitical
issues. When the Spanish government blocked access to information about the
independence referendum in Catalonia, [activists used
IPFS](https://twitter.com/KRLS/status/911482634789953536?) to distribute
censorship-resistant websites with sample ballots and lists of polling
locations.

IPFS continues to grow steadily, serve larger sets of users and more kinds of
applications. But there is a lot more work to do to enable people and
communities worldwide to control what data is stored on their machines and on
their networks. The IPFS maintainers and the broader IPFS community are
tackling that work with verve. Many IPFS developers eagerly await the arrival
of Filecoin, which will enable large-scale decentralized storage for IPFS
applications.

### 5\. Launch of the SAFT Project

Over the past year we’ve dedicated a significant amount of energy and
resources to develop a framework for legally compliant token sales. While the
Filecoin Sale was the first use of that framework, [we formally launched the
SAFT Project](https://protocol.ai/blog/announcing-saft-project/) in October -
a collaboration between Protocol Labs, Cooley, and many other token creators,
legal experts, and investors. Our goal is to approach legal protocol
development the same way we approach software protocol development: with a
thoughtful community, strong goals, and rigorous work. We hope our efforts
will save creators much of the current headache, uncertainty, and cost
associated with raising money for token networks.

The reception and adoption has been tremendous. SAFTs have been used by token
creators and investors to transact in dozens of token sales. It is estimated
that close to or more than half a billion dollars has been transacted with
SAFTs and [recent regulatory action](https://coincenter.org/entry/munchee-
settlement-puts-the-utility-token-argument-to-the-test) is congruent with [the
SAFT framework’s
assessments](https://twitter.com/msantoriESQ/status/940283039489380354). To
find out more visit the [SAFT Project Website](https://saftproject.com/) and
[Github](https://github.com/saft-project), or review some recent press from
[CoinDesk](https://www.coindesk.com/saft-arrives-simple-investor-agreement-
aims-remove-ico-complexities/), [CoinCenter](https://coincenter.org/entry/the-
saft-is-a-reasonable-approach-to-securities-law-when-preselling-useful-
network-tokens),
[Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/laurashin/2017/10/02/are-icos-for-
utility-tokens-selling-securities-prominent-crypto-players-say-
yes/#67eacfca34fa) and [The Economist](https://www.economist.com/news/finance-
and-economics/21731157-they-raise-difficult-legal-questions-regulators-begin-
tackle-craze).

### 6\. Growing the Team

Ambitious projects like Filecoin succeed or fail depending on their teams. One
of our top priorities – in the past, present, and future – is to [grow our
team](https://protocol.ai/join/) with brilliant, masterful, hardworking people
who share our vision and mission. Our recruiting is focused on strengthening
the core engineering, research, and business development teams, as well as
filling a few key operational roles.

Our network is large thanks to you. We need your help sourcing as many
excellent candidates for our [open positions](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol).
As a distributed team, we hire anywhere in the world, and at various levels of
experience (entry, senior, staff, etc). We look for people with unique
perspectives and diverse backgrounds. If you – or someone you know – may be a
good fit, please apply.

  * [Software Engineer, Distributed Systems](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/50de30a8-289f-49e5-93ad-9967e1941c12)
  * [Software Engineer, Peer-to-Peer Networks](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/e4a469e4-c420-4ae5-acea-44c33a03dbd2)
  * [Software Engineer, Blockchain](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/9bcb0a17-f97e-44f7-929f-10684d459e95)
  * [Software Engineer, Infrastructure and Devops](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/a8640ecf-4b1a-490a-bf94-b205059cfe38)
  * [Software Engineer, Testing](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/512e6178-f4b0-4b01-9e76-025b460bddac)
  * [Software Engineer, Security](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/086405c2-69bf-4ea2-9d59-d24adeb501b3)
  * [Software Engineer, Cryptography](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/9afbc1c9-8b3b-4c03-856d-6b0cb5518eaa)
  * [Software Engineer, Frontend](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/362ae2fd-24a5-49cf-b19c-6d98aa43556a)
  * [Research Scientist, Cryptography](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/f6413901-cf6c-43be-af0e-d1a68adddada)
  * [Research Scientist, Distributed Systems](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/91b0676d-4b69-4351-9700-f974383647b0)
  * [Research Scientist, Networking](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/40f45107-426f-4dcc-b3a2-ddbe6d3261cd)
  * [Open Source Project Manager](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/ade15930-e3b2-4556-b8a2-1d40bcfe178c)
  * [Open Source Product Manager](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/93815a61-b606-428b-8f00-37f2374bcaf6)
  * [User Experience Designer](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/d8db6f8d-f8f8-44a9-bba1-56b1dc84d492)
  * [U.S. Legal Counsel](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/ce723bdb-ff47-4f9f-9ed4-5c2ff7e88085)
  * [Legal Project Manager](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/28eb8b6d-4d36-4126-afa3-04a9ffe9aa69)
  * [Head of Finance](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/231f9580-0cfc-4983-a1aa-0d92df3fff61)
  * [Investor Relations Manager](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/058803b3-4367-4066-aa49-813735127449)
  * [Asset Manager](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/eb7556d7-ad51-4fa8-aff9-69131a4ace0d)
  * [Communications Lead](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/0c0c00c8-e63b-440f-849d-f341c672657d)
  * [People Ops Coordinator](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol/6ab0efc0-6225-4440-b67d-995420328262)
  * …and [more](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol).

For a full list, please visit our [current openings
page](https://jobs.lever.co/protocol). Please take a moment to share these
role(s) with your network or [email us](mailto:team@filecoin.io) with
suggestions. We must cast a wide net in order to find the best candidates, and
you can help us significantly in this effort.

### 7\. Filecoin Engineering & Development

We have been hard at work on implementing the Filecoin Protocol. Filecoin
builds on the strong foundations laid by IPFS, libp2p, and Ethereum. This
means a large number of very difficult pieces are already implemented, and we
can focus on connecting these battle-tested components.

The bulk of our implementation work involves building and testing new
Filecoin-specific parts, which are still monumental endeavors. This includes:

  1. the Filecoin Blockchain data structures and algorithms.
  2. the State Tree, which represents all world state for files, accounts, and contracts on Filecoin.
  3. the core contracts that will manage file Storage, Repair, Retrieval, and Mining.
  4. contract execution itself, optimized for Filecoin.
  5. library contracts for user agents, data storage and exchange, and other protocols.
  6. low-level primitives such as Proofs-of-Replication and Proofs-of-Spacetime.
  7. the Filecoin mining protocol, sequential work, and consensus.
  8. economic structures, such as miner pledges, collaterals, storage and retrieval payments.

This quarter, we have been focused on the initial structure of the mining
node, on wiring up libp2p, IPFS, and the other components, and then tackling
(1), (2), (4), and (6) above.

Here are some of the technical problems we are exploring:

  * Erasure Coding structures in Filecoin that maximize resilience, minimize probabilities of failure, and keep index overheads low.
  * Latency issues in permissionless transactional systems, for storing and retrieving files, as well as for regular transactions.
  * Structural improvements for the state and execution model.
  * Scalability of transaction processing.
  * Formal Verification and safer smart-contract languages.
  * Operation in temporarily or long-term disconnected environments.

We invite anybody interested in any of these parts, both research and
implementation, to contact us at [team@filecoin.io](mailto:team@filecoin.io),
specially people with backgrounds in cryptography research or distributed
systems implementation.

#### 7.1. Blockchain Ecosystem R&D

We continue to review and be inspired by the excellent work of other protocols
and the academic community. In particular, we are paying close attention to
many interesting developments, which may improve Filecoin. Here are some
examples:

  * **Ethereum** has inspired lots of our work, and we are building with it. The list of things we leverage from Ethereum is long – the Blockchain state and execution models, the EVM, contract interfaces, and so on. Two recent interesting contributions are the addition of primitives required for zk-SNARKs directly to the EVM, and the exploration of WebAssembly as a compilation target (eWASM).
  * **Zcash** : The Zcash team has been a leader in the development and application of zk-SNARKs, and is continuously pushing forward new research and improvements. Recent exciting developments include work on the BLS12-381 curve, and the Powers of Tau parameter generation ceremony.
  * **Polkadot** : the team pursues many protocol and system improvements based on learnings from implementing Ethereum and many other protocols. One such decision: to formally distinguish and use hard-coding and soft-coding of core contracts where relevant, with a scheduled replacement (user space vs kernel space).
  * **Tezos** : we continue to study other VM and smart contract execution systems, especially those that aim towards formal verification. We applaud their work in this area, and continue to watch closely, as we believe blockchains desperately need programming languages with better properties (verifiability, stronger type systems, etc).
  * **Ethereum verification** : in the same vein, we are studying and experimenting with works that build safer languages on top of the EVM. There have been several promising papers, and we will be conducting evaluations and experiments in this area.
  * Of course, we continue to leverage the improvements made by our teams and communities in the [**IPFS**](https://ipfs.io/) **,** [**libp2p**](https://libp2p.io/) **,** [**IPLD**](https://ipld.io/) **, and** [**multiformats**](https://multiformats.io/) **projects**. These are also leveraged by other blockchain projects, which will build a stronger, more robust, and interoperable Web 3.0.
  * [**STARKs**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VUN35BC11Qw) **and** [**Bulletproofs**](https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/1066.pdf): it is a great time for verifiable computation. STARKs and Bulletproofs are two transparent non-interactive zero-knowledge proof systems, which Filecoin may use for some of its proof algorithms. We are exploring tradeoffs and constructions.

#### 7.2. Open Problems and RFPs

Early in 2018, we will launch listings of open problems and a Request-for-
Proposal (RFP) program to inspire and support work. The Open Problem listing
will give us a venue to draw attention to important directions for
improvements – for Filecoin and blockchains in general. The RFPs will allow us
to motivate and reward people who help us solve those problems and implement
their solutions. Keep an eye out for announcements!

### 8\. Investor SAFTs and Warnings

In October, all investor SAFTs were sent out by email. We heard some of these
emails were caught in spam filters, so to avoid issues we will be re-sending
them again soon. We have also added a cryptographic signature to the SAFTs
that verifies its validity, so the new version you will receive will be the
definitive one. For more information on how to treat SAFTs and how tokens will
be issued, please read the [sale completion
post](https://filecoin.io/blog/sale-completed) or email us at
[sale@filecoin.io](mailto:sale@filecoin.io).

**Investor caution:** during and after the Filecoin token sale we’ve seen
several attempts to defraud investors from actors claiming to be selling
Filecoin SAFTs or tokens. Similarly, we’ve seen unscrupulous exchanges listing
Filecoin and Filecoin derivatives. Remember that the Filecoin token **will
not** be live until network launch, and any exchange that lists Filecoin or
IPFS tokens is likely fraudulent. We strongly recommend not trusting any
exchange or entity who claims to be buying, selling, or trading Filecoin
tokens or derivatives. We will announce here when the Filecoin Network and
token go live, until then we strongly recommend staying away from such actors
and exchanges.

### 9\. CoinList

We originally launched [CoinList](https://coinlist.co/) to make token-based
fundraising [easy and legally
compliant](https://www.forbes.com/sites/laurashin/2017/05/18/want-to-hold-an-
ico-coinlist-makes-it-easy-and-legal/#b642fca7ce5e). The platform innovated on
many fronts. It developed new legal frameworks by introducing the
[SAFT](https://saftproject.com/) instrument for the first time. It raised the
bar for legal compliance. It introduced new payment options, accepting ETH,
BTC, ZEC, and USD simultaneously. It incorporated security improvements, such
as an IPFS-hosted HD Wallet verification tool. And it improved the investor
experience through a modern user interface and structured email support.

The [Filecoin sale](https://protocol.ai/blog/filecoin-sale-completed/) proved
the CoinList platform. Since then, the project has attracted new token
creators looking to launch their projects and more investors looking to invest
in crypto-assets. To give the platform the attention it deserves, Protocol
Labs and AngelList spun out CoinList as its own [separate company with a
dedicated team](https://medium.com/@coinlist/introducing-
coinlist-16253eb5cdc3). Since September, CoinList has already completed two
more sales – [Blockstack](https://coinlist.co/blockstack) and
[PROPS](https://coinlist.co/props) – and has grown into the leading platform
for token fundraising and investment.

During the transition, Filecoin SAFTs were temporarily removed from the
CoinList platform, and will be added back in early 2018. For more information
on CoinList, please visit [coinlist.co](https://coinlist.co/).

### 10\. Clients and Miners

Finally, the Filecoin Network is off to a very strong start. Tens of thousands
of very enthusiastic early storage users and miners have already signed up for
our [early
user](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdCOjMenUU7WtT54zeAivCS2nnaWYQIgaXh0eRdIdpi6Pwkew/viewform)
and [early
miner](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfdFpWhJj8OIGA2iXrT3bnLgVK9bgR_1iLMPdAcXLxr_1d-pw/viewform?c=0&w=1)
programs. Currently we’re meeting with a small but wide-ranging subset of
them, gathering insights to inform our design of onboarding experiences,
market incentives, and more. Please spread the word on these forms – if you or
someone you know are interested in becoming storage users or miners, notifying
us sooner will help us plan with you.

  * For interested storage users, fill out the [Filecoin Early Users](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdCOjMenUU7WtT54zeAivCS2nnaWYQIgaXh0eRdIdpi6Pwkew/viewform) form.
  * For interested miners, fill out the [Filecoin Early Mining](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfdFpWhJj8OIGA2iXrT3bnLgVK9bgR_1iLMPdAcXLxr_1d-pw/viewform?c=0&w=1) form.

Thank you for all your support so far, and in the future. And thank you in
advance for your referrals, ideas, and suggestions. Your help is critical to
our progress.

All of us at Protocol Labs and the Filecoin Team wish you the best for the
holidays, and for 2018, which should be a great year for all of us :)

The Filecoin Team

Protocol Labs

### Related Articles

[View all articles](../../../blog)

[ ](../../../blog/posts/open-web-community-summit-the-future-of-storage-
capacity/)

events

##  [ Open Web Community Summit: The Future of Storage Capacity
](../../../blog/posts/open-web-community-summit-the-future-of-storage-
capacity/)

Dystopia Labs recently hosted the Open Web Community Summit for Creators &
Community, co-presented by NEAR Protocol and Gitcoin. The event mainly focused
on NFTs and featured 50+ speakers and dozens of artists and creators from all
over the world.

Jul 15, 2021

[ ](../../../blog/posts/filecoin-news-26/)

updates interviews awards events

##  [ Filecoin News 26: Filecoin Network capacity surpasses 10 EiB, and more!
](../../../blog/posts/filecoin-news-26/)

Welcome to Filecoin News 26!

Sep 8, 2021

[ ](../../../blog/posts/using-filecoin-with-ipfs/)

updates

##  [ Using Filecoin with IPFS ](../../../blog/posts/using-filecoin-with-
ipfs/)

Understanding how Filecoin and IPFS come together to create decentralized
storage through the lens of Textile and Estuary.

Sep 16, 2021

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You’ve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

