[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ 中文 ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [updates](../../../blog/updates)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Jul 6, 2020  

## Filecoin Comes to ProtoSchool

One of Filecoin’s most distinguishing features is its approach to verifiable
storage. In a recent [blog post](https://filecoin.io/blog/filecoin-features-
verifiable-storage/), we summarized how Filecoin implements decentralized
storage with a combination of consensus mechanisms and cryptographic proofs
that allow clients to trust that miners are storing their data as agreed.

### Explore Filecoin concepts on ProtoSchool

Today we’re excited to announce ProtoSchool’s first-ever Filecoin tutorial,
[**Verifying Storage on Filecoin**](https://proto.school/#/verifying-storage-
on-filecoin). It offers a beginner-friendly, code-free look at Filecoin’s
proof system, exploring how Proof of Replication (PoRep), Proof of Storage
(PoSt), and zkSNARKs make it possible to trust peers in an incentivized,
decentralized storage system.

[**Explore the tutorial now.**](https://proto.school/#/verifying-storage-on-
filecoin)

![table of contents](https://filecoin.io/vintage/images/blog/protoschool-
verifying-storage-toc.png =x300)![multiple-choice
quiz](https://filecoin.io/vintage/images/blog/protoschool-verifying-storage-
mult-choice.png =x200)

If you haven’t yet done so, we encourage you to check out our [Decentralized
Data Structures](https://proto.school/#/data-structures) tutorial before
digging into Verifying Storage on Filecoin. It explores concepts that are key
to building trust on the decentralized web, including cryptographic hashing,
content addressing, Directed Acyclic Graphs (DAG), and Merkle Trees.

For other content relevant to Filecoin, you can check out our [Anatomy of a
CID](https://proto.school/#/anatomy-of-a-cid) tutorial, which explores the
structure of CIDs (Content Identifiers) as defined by the Multiformats
project. These unique labels are used to point to data stored on distributed
information systems including IPFS, IPLD, libp2p, and Filecoin.

### New to ProtoSchool?

ProtoSchool’s [self-guided tutorials](https://proto.school/#/tutorials) are
designed to introduce you to DWeb concepts, protocols, and tools. Complete
JavaScript code challenges right in your web browser or stick to our text-
based or multiple-choice tutorials for a code-free experience, with content
ranging from from IPFS to Multiformats and now Filecoin.

![featured tutorials](https://filecoin.io/vintage/images/blog/protoschool-
featured-tutorials.png =x350)

Excited to introduce others to DWeb concepts? Learn how to [host a ProtoSchool
workshop](https://proto.school/#/host) (live or virtual) that allows learners
in your community to explore our content with support from mentors.

[Subscribe to the ProtoSchool newsletter](https://proto.school/#/news) for
updates on new tutorials and site features, with an option to receive
additional guidance for local event leaders.

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You’ve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

