[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ 中文 ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [updates](../../../blog/updates)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Apr 8, 2020  

## Filecoin Dev Grants - Wave 3 New RFPs, Wave 1 & 2

The goal of the Filecoin Dev Grant program is to spark new projects and invite
collaborators to explore technical experiments and tools that will benefit and
widen our early ecosystem.

## Wave 3 New RFPs

The **Wave 3 deadline for Filecoin Dev Grants** has been extended to **April
15th at 23:59 PDT**. This is the final wave with a few months to build
something before Filecoin’s mainnet launch. A wide range of [**new RFP ideas
have been published here**](https://github.com/filecoin-
project/devgrants/blob/master/rfps/new-wave-3-rfps.md) and we hope this sparks
more ideas and discussion of what could be built.

We seek proposals to develop new tools, applications and proof-of-concepts
that can improve the usefulness of Filecoin and cultivate understanding around
the potential of the protocol.

Technical teams, socio-technical researchers and community members who are
interested in learning how Filecoin works and building something interesting
are encouraged to apply.

We’re also seeking to engage miners who’d like to help us test mining at PB
scale. For more information see [**this miner testing
RFP**](https://github.com/filecoin-project/devgrants/blob/master/rfps/rfp-
pbscale-miner-testing.md).

## Wave 1 Project Highlights

We’re excited to see Wave 1 Dev Grant projects such as the
[**Filscan.io**](https://filscan.io/) block explorer and the
[**Hactar**](https://hactar.app/) miner analytics service now live and ready
to test. These are open source projects available in the [**filecoin-
shipyard**](https://github.com/filecoin-shipyard) of community repos. Kudos to
these early community members for building fantastic projects!

## Wave 2 Projects

We appreciate all Wave 2 dev grant proposals and hope to continue seeing
enthusiastic technical teams apply. We received 17 proposals and selected the
following projects:

  * Reputation System
  * Filecoin-backed NFT Snapshot Bot
  * File Uploader & Reader
  * Mobile Wallet in Flutter (supporting)
  * Weighted BLS paper submission (supporting)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/) block explorer (supporting)

These projects will eventually be open sourced and shared with the community
in the [filecoin-shipyard](https://github.com/filecoin-shipyard/) on Github.

Thank you to all the grant applicants who participated in Wave 2! We hope to
see more great submissions for the upcoming Wave 3.

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You’ve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

