[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ¬∑

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![Fish Out of Water: My Experiences Joining the Crypto Community - Part 3:
Ethereum Personas](/static/32b21631d9d8cd8bb1a0c6cdcca82519/2a43b/header.jpg)

[Community](/blog/category/community/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[UX](/blog/category/ux/)

## Fish Out of Water: My Experiences Joining the Crypto Community - Part 3:
Ethereum Personas

By [Gabriel Golcher](/blog/author/gabriel-golcher/)

¬∑

October 18, 2020

* * *

**Fish Out of Water Series**  
[Part 1: New Beginnings](https://akasha.org/blog/2020/07/14/new-beginnings)  
[Part 2: The Community Shows Up ](https://akasha.org/blog/2020/09/03/the-
community-shows-up)  
[Part 3: Ethereum Personas](https://akasha.org/blog/2020/10/18/ethereum-
personas)  
[Part 4: The Standard for Crypto UX](https://akasha.org/blog/2020/12/04/the-
standard-for-crypto-ux)  
[Part 5: Product-Market Fit+](https://akasha.org/blog/2020/12/18/product-
market-fit)

* * *

Hi everybody!

It‚Äôs been around a month since I last checked in and I have a very exciting
development to share with you! If you remember [my previous
post](https://akasha.org/blog/2020/09/03/the-community-shows-up), we were
running a user study interviewing y‚Äôall in the Ethereum community to better
understand how and why you use Ethereum. Well, we have concluded the study and
have results to share with you! ü•≥

Based on our findings, we identified and characterized **personas** of
Ethereum users. These personas can be used by all Ethereum dapps to improve
their UX. (Many of you may not know what personas are. [This
guide](https://xd.adobe.com/ideas/process/user-research/putting-personas-to-
work-in-ux-design) is a great primer that should properly explain their value
and how they are used. Please read it, it‚Äôs short. From here on I‚Äôll assume
you have become familiarized with personas.)

Usually, personas are derived from exploratory interviews with 6-8
participants. Well, in this case you guys really showed up and demonstrated
your passion to contribute to Ethereum and [lift all
boats](https://www.usingenglish.com/reference/idioms/a+rising+tide+lifts+all+boats.html).
We interviewed 32 of you over two separate interviews, yielding a total of 53
hours of interviews! _This is amazing and completely beyond anything I have
seen in my professional career._ **Thank you! üôåüèº**

Our interviews delved into several topics around Ethereum: general participant
background, Ethereum experience and attitudes, and perspectives on the
Ethereum Community, investing, social networks, dapps, onboarding, and
governance, among others.

With this data, I sat down and watched a recording of every session and took
copious notes. In fact, you guys played so full out that I ended up with **132
pages of typed notes! üìë**

[ ![Work.png](/static/9ff4b616ff1d656b5bd1e5363ae085b3/fcda8/Work.png)
](/static/9ff4b616ff1d656b5bd1e5363ae085b3/493ac/Work.png) _This was me
analyzing the notes to identify patterns and develop personas._

The end result is **6 different personas that roughly represent the different
groups in the Ethereum community today**. Please remember that personas are
representative of trends and attitudes in a population, and that even if you
identify with a persona, the specific details may be different between you and
the persona in question.

Also, many of you may exhibit the traits of multiple personas, and that‚Äôs
fine: people can be different personas at different times or in different
contexts. Again, the idea is to abstract and humanize patterns to develop
empathy and improve the UX process.

Finally, some of you may be saying ‚ÄúWhat about X persona or Y persona that
I‚Äôve observed?‚Äù. While the most probable explanation is that those personas in
question are actually not meaningfully represented in the Ethereum community,
there are other possibilities. It may be that other personas are just not
present in our data by chance or that there are inherent biases in our data
collection that influenced the results. Ultimately, any conclusions drawn from
sample data for a population have a confidence level that is less than 100%.
In our case, because the data is extremely ample and diverse, we have a high
level of confidence in our findings.

All that being said, let‚Äôs move on to the presentation of each persona. You‚Äôll
see for each persona several sections describing who the persona is, their
goals and frustrations, their characteristics, what dapps they use, and the
social networks they frequent. The logos in the dapps area represent the dapps
participants matching those personas reported using. The logos in the social
networks area represent social networks that were mentioned by a plurality of
users in the study. When they are colored-in, participants for a given persona
reported using them; when they are grayed-out, participants for this persona
did not use them. (Note that stock photography is used under a free-use
license from [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/) and that all logos are
trademarks of their respective owners.)

So, without further ado, our Ethereum personas are:

[ ![Explorer.png](/static/dbd302c85cea07ddbcf0bd7ec8b115f2/fcda8/Explorer.png)
](/static/dbd302c85cea07ddbcf0bd7ec8b115f2/11a8f/Explorer.png)

[
![Technologist.png](/static/298b01b91e3696895c65f7501bde6ca5/fcda8/Technologist.png)
](/static/298b01b91e3696895c65f7501bde6ca5/11a8f/Technologist.png)

[ ![Idealist.png](/static/f6983faff84bd54ec997fad3bd14c477/fcda8/Idealist.png)
](/static/f6983faff84bd54ec997fad3bd14c477/11a8f/Idealist.png)

[
![Socializer.png](/static/a136efcd19ddfd84f06c96f0471ff03b/fcda8/Socializer.png)
](/static/a136efcd19ddfd84f06c96f0471ff03b/11a8f/Socializer.png)

[ ![Investor.png](/static/a2282ae68b3d3408d62c640471ca61d3/fcda8/Investor.png)
](/static/a2282ae68b3d3408d62c640471ca61d3/11a8f/Investor.png)

[ ![Artist.png](/static/e26587d48a55ce511966eea8d1b13171/fcda8/Artist.png)
](/static/e26587d48a55ce511966eea8d1b13171/11a8f/Artist.png)

So, how can you leverage these personas for your project? Well, with this
knowledge you can ensure you target your business to meet the needs of one or
more personas, and to tailor the UX to better fit their workflows. The end
result should be projects with better product-market fit and higher usability.

I hope these personas prove valuable to you. If you have any questions,
thoughts, or feedback about these personas please do let me know in our
[Discord channel](https://discord.com/invite/JqqKasJ). If you use them in your
projects, I‚Äôd especially love to hear about that!

**If enough of you express interest, I‚Äôd be more than happy to host a webinar
/ Q &A where I can talk more about them in detail.**

I‚Äôd just like to close by thanking all the people who contributed to this
study. You are amazing and your enthusiasm and time are much appreciated. ‚ù§Ô∏è

Thank you all!

Gabriel

* * *

_Continue to[Part 4: The Standard for Crypto
UX](https://akasha.org/blog/2020/12/04/the-standard-for-crypto-ux)_

_Header image from[Duy Pham, available on
unsplash.com](https://unsplash.com/photos/Cecb0_8Hx-o)_

[Community](/blog/category/community/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[UX](/blog/category/ux/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 ‚Äî Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 ‚Äî Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt‚Ä¶

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

Mar√≠a Sanmart√≠n and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and‚Ä¶

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 ‚Äî Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 ‚Äî Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized‚Ä¶

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ¬∑

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2020/10/18/ethereum-
personas)

