![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/follow-the-white-rabbit-orchids-privacy-podcast/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/follow-the-white-rabbit-orchids-privacy-podcast/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/follow-the-white-rabbit-orchids-privacy-podcast/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/follow-the-white-rabbit-orchids-privacy-podcast/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/follow-the-white-rabbit-orchids-privacy-podcast/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/follow-the-white-rabbit-orchids-privacy-podcast/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Follow the White Rabbit: Orchid’s privacy
podcast](/static/dd851679fefa861d5c97e607b7ea7732/follow-the-white-rabbit.jpg)

# Follow the White Rabbit: Orchid’s privacy podcast

Jun 8, 2020  
  

Privacy matters -- and we're bringing some of the leading thinkers on the
subject together to talk about why. Orchid is founded on a deeply-held belief
in the importance of privacy, human rights, and democracy -- which, after all,
is a decentralized form of government. Now our podcast, Follow the White
Rabbit, is bringing together diverse voices, including entrepreneurs,
policymakers, technologists, law enforcement, and our own co-founders to
explore the different facets of privacy and how they affect our lives.

[Check out the podcast here.](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)

Follow the White Rabbit is for everyone, whether they are consumers, business
professionals, or simply privacy enthusiasts. The podcast's focus is on the
intersection of privacy, democracy, human rights, and technology. We're
interviewing the industry experts, hackers, politicians, entrepreneurs,
venture capitalists, and activists who are working to build a world -- and
Internet -- where our right to privacy is protected and where technology is
built to preserve privacy from the ground up.

Once a week, Orchid's Alex Kehaya sits down with thought leaders in the tech,
privacy, crypto and blockchain space. The one-hour interviews are in-depth and
wide ranging, aiming to dive deep into diverse topics spanning all areas where
privacy, technology, and wide-ranging opinions come together. Each episode
leverages a trending topic that we discuss as if we were old friends having a
cup of coffee.

In our premiere episode, we go down the rabbit hole with Rich Staropoli, whose
career reads like a Tom Clancy spy novel. He's the former White House CIO for
the Department of Homeland Security and a special agent for the Secret Service
for 25 years.

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

He discusses what it was like to protect President George W. Bush on September
11th, his thoughts on the current state of technology at DHS, what
cybersecurity risks our country faces, and the future of our election systems.

Coming up, we look forward to being joined by VInny Lingham, who will share
thoughts on He discusses his thoughts on data privacy, why we need
decentralized systems to protect our identity, whether crypto can displace the
dollar, and what lies ahead for entrepreneurs in the new normal. Other future
guests include: Jyri Engestrom, Roger Ver, Jehan Chu, Richard Muirhead, and
many more.

Follow the White Rabbit podcasts are available on the Orchid blog and other
social channels. You can subscribe to Follow the White Rabbit through
[Apple](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/follow-the-white-
rabbit/id1516705670),
[Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/show/4QxpmHume4QaIWV5i893d4?si=Hw6yyqbJQV6GmTvOBSJryg),
[Castbox](https://castbox.fm/ch/2954358) and [your other favorite podcast
platforms](https://www.orchid.com/podcast#subscribe). New episodes are
available every Wednesday.

We built Orchid to help restore the Internet as an open place where people can
explore freely. Follow the White Rabbit is an extension of that mission. We
hope that by facilitating debate and delving into subjects at the intersection
of privacy, technology, freedom, and democracy, we can open a powerful channel
for the furthering of the cause of privacy.

_[Download Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/download/) today to take control of
your privacy in a new way._

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)
  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Follow%20the%20White%20Rabbit%3A%20Orchid%E2%80%99s%20privacy%20podcast%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Ffollow-
the-white-rabbit-orchids-privacy-podcast%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Ffollow-
the-white-rabbit-orchids-privacy-podcast%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Ffollow-
the-white-rabbit-orchids-privacy-podcast%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

](/orchid-answers-the-communitys-questions-in-binance-espaol-ama/)

[

#### Orchid answers the community’s questions in Binance Español AMA

](/orchid-answers-the-communitys-questions-in-binance-espaol-ama/)

Feb 23, 2021

](/follow-the-white-rabbit-is-now-the-priv8-podcast-/)

[

#### Follow the White Rabbit is now the Priv8 Podcast

](/follow-the-white-rabbit-is-now-the-priv8-podcast-/)

Apr 22, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

