[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Former Goldman Sachs Leader & CME Group Venture Capitalist Rumi Morales joins
Outlier Ventures to spearhead expansion into US

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

[mc4wp_form id='4618']

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/blog-
post-9.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/) [Lawrence Lundy
Joins Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/)

April 2016  

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/blog-
post-7.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-vc-to-
hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/) [Outlier
Ventures Becomes First VC To Hire ‘Head of Crypto-Economics’ With Appointment
of Eden Dhaliwal](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-
vc-to-hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/)

August 2017  

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Former Goldman Sachs Leader & CME Group Venture Capitalist Rumi Morales
joins Outlier Ventures to spearhead expansion into US

Posted by Former Goldman Sachs Leader & CME Group Venture Capitalist Rumi
Morales joins Outlier Ventures to spearhead expansion into US - June 2018

[ __](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://outlierventures.io/former-
goldman-sachs-leader-cme-group-venture-capitalist-rumi-morales-joins-outlier-
ventures-to-spearhead-expansion-into-us) [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://outlierventures.io/former-
goldman-sachs-leader-cme-group-venture-capitalist-rumi-morales-joins-outlier-
ventures-to-spearhead-expansion-into-us&title=Former Goldman Sachs Leader &
CME Group Venture Capitalist Rumi Morales joins Outlier Ventures to spearhead
expansion into US) [
__](https://twitter.com/share?url=https://outlierventures.io/former-goldman-
sachs-leader-cme-group-venture-capitalist-rumi-morales-joins-outlier-ventures-
to-spearhead-expansion-into-us&text=Former Goldman Sachs Leader & CME Group
Venture Capitalist Rumi Morales joins Outlier Ventures to spearhead expansion
into US) [
__](https://telegram.me/share/url?url=https://outlierventures.io/former-
goldman-sachs-leader-cme-group-venture-capitalist-rumi-morales-joins-outlier-
ventures-to-spearhead-expansion-into-us&text=Former Goldman Sachs Leader & CME
Group Venture Capitalist Rumi Morales joins Outlier Ventures to spearhead
expansion into US)

### _Strong institutional investment background key to supporting Outlier
Ventures’ growth strategy_

![Former Goldman Sachs Leader & CME Group Venture Capitalist Rumi Morales
joins Outlier Ventures to spearhead expansion into US Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/06/153002247185979030-1.jpeg)

Leading blockchain and internet infrastructure venture capital firm Outlier
Ventures today announces experienced venture capitalist Rumi Morales joins the
firm as a Partner.

An early specialist in digital currency, blockchain and distributed ledger
technologies, Morales is also a leading early investor in artificial
intelligence, deep learning, predictive analytics, and quantum computing as
they will affect traditional industries.

Based in Chicago, Morales founded and led CME Ventures, the venture arm of the
CME Group, the world’s leading exchange operator. She spearheaded substantial
early investments in blockchain companies Ripple, Digital Currency Group and
Digital Asset Holdings, as well as investments in geospatial data firm,
Orbital Insight, industrial IOT firm, SparkCognition, and deep-learning
startup Nervana Systems, which was acquired by Intel in 2016, among others.
Prior to that role, Morales founded her own research consultancy and spent
seven years with Goldman Sachs where she established the firm’s Global Markets
Institute that focused on the intersection of public policy formation and
capital markets. She is a board member of the Chamber of Digital Commerce and
adds to Outlier Ventures’ existing relationship with the Wall Street
Blockchain Alliance.

With a successful track record investing in transformational innovation,
Morales has been concentrating since 2014 in the convergence of blockchain and
distributed ledger technology and other areas of advanced technologies – an
intersection where Outlier Ventures has been an established leader. Morales
said,

> _“The team at Outlier spotted the convergence of distributed ledger
> technology, IoT and AI very early and we couldn’t be closer in our thinking
> on where value is being created for the economy of tomorrow.”_

Jamie Burke, CEO, Outlier Ventures added:

> “ _Rumi’s strong background in both early stage technology and working in
> senior investment roles for major financial institutions means she is an
> excellent fit for our growth strategy in a maturing crypto-assets market. As
> we ramp up our activities in investing for decentralised technologies in Web
> 3.0 and technology convergence, we couldn’t hope to find more relevant
> leader to represent us in the US.”_

The senior hire gives Outlier Ventures a deeper presence in the North America,
a market which already represents 50% of its portfolio, and helps it fully
realise its vision as not only Europe’s leading crypto VC but a major
transatlantic player. Morales will represent the firm with a focus on deal
sourcing and VC ecosystem relationships, and co-investments an area she knows
intimately having been credited by _Institutional Investor_ as ‘one of the
most powerful dealmakers in financial technology’ in consecutive years.

The appointment of Morales follows strong recent growth for Outlier across
both their London and Toronto offices and a string of senior hires including
the experienced corporate lawyer the former HSBC senior structuring expert
Jocelyn Roberts joining as Head of Legal in May. Outlier’s backing for early
stage Web 3.0 innovators is also accelerating, with the firm leading the
investment round in new decentralised database startup Haja Networks this
month.

The recently published[ Convergence Ecosystem
report](https://outlierventures.io/research/introducing-the-convergence-
ecosystem/) from Outlier Ventures is now available and outlines the evolving
decentralised technology stack and the emerging foundations of a new data
infrastructure, which supports entirely new economic models.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

