[Go Back](../../)[Fleek.co](https://Fleek.co)

# Fully Decentralize Your App With ENS!

![](https://fleek-team-bucket.storage.fleek.co/thumbnails-blog/ENSCover.jpg)

Deploying sites on IPFS allows creators to take advantage of a powerful peer-
to-peer file system and, in so doing, embrace distributed technology.

Yet more can still be done to _fully_ decentralize an app. What is missing is…
an ENS domain!

What is ENS? Why do you need it? How can Fleek make your life 10x easier
handling ENS domains?

Let’s find out!

# The Web3 Motto: Decentralize Everything!

[ ![decentralize
everything](../../static/ff31e64d7da31bfd5495f9d56a453287/41099/decentralize_everything.jpg)
](../../static/ff31e64d7da31bfd5495f9d56a453287/41099/decentralize_everything.jpg)

A fundamental aspect of Web3 technologies is their dedication in not relying
on centralized and faillible entities to serve users. Due to their innate
robustness, decentralized alternatives are preferable to centralized ones in
almost all cases, thus the popular motto: _Decentralize Everything!_

ENS, short for Ethereum Name Service, stands at the forefront of the
decentralization movement and is meant to be an alternative to traditional
naming systems. ENS domains end with `.eth`, as opposed to traditional domains
who end with `.com`, `.org`, `.io`, etc…

The trusted Ethereum blockchain ensures its decentralization, so there’s no
worries on that front.

That’s why Vitalik Buterin, the inventor of Ethereum, [likes ENS so
much](https://twitter.com/vitalikbuterin/status/1247997846290198528).

# ENS For FULL Decentralization!

[ ![centralised
dns](../../static/9d39d691d6b79b287a34546e279d8820/41099/centralised_dns.jpg)
](../../static/9d39d691d6b79b287a34546e279d8820/41099/centralised_dns.jpg)

While an app deployed on IPFS is decentralized as far as file distribution
goes, it cannot be called _fully_ decentralized without a human-readable
method for sharing its content.

Sadly, traditional domains rely on centralized servers and [monolithic
institutions](https://www.houstonchronicle.com/local/explainer/article/Explained-
the-controversy-with-ICANN-9443357.php). As such, an app cannot be called
fully decentralized if it depends on traditional domains to be shared with
others.

ENS therefore unlocks _total_ decentralization!

# IPFS + ENS = <3

ENS domains can resolve to IPFS hashes.

We’ve deployed our Fleek insfrastructure on IPFS + ENS to demonstrate how it
works. Simply go to [fleekhq.eth](https://fleekhq.eth/) to witness how an ENS
domain resolves to IPFS. Make sure you are using a [browser which resolves ENS
domains](https://codeclimbing.com/how-to-visit-ens-enabled-websites-your-
gateway-to-web3/) to access the site. Alternatively, you can append `.link` to
an ENS domain to access it, such as <https://fleekhq.eth.link>

IPFS and ENS go hand in hand perfectly!

# The Big Problem With ENS… Solved With Fleek

Despite the benefits, there is one big issue with ENS.

Since the ENS domain points to an IPFS hash, the IPFS hash on ENS must be
updated _everytime_ there is an update to the site, since a new update results
in a new IPFS hash. This drawback makes using ENS for modern web development
flows very cumbersome.

If ONLY there was a way to automatically update the IPFS hash upon site
update, a tool to make ENS integration 10x easier… _wink_ _wink_

Fleek simplifies ENS domain integration by auto-publishing new IFPS hashes to
ENS anytime it detects a change.

This is accomplished through setting Fleek as the `controller` of the ENS
domain. The `controller` is responsible for day-to-day activities such as
updating the IPFS hash. The user is the `registrant` which is the role that
hash ultimate control of the domain. The `registrant` can change the
`controller` at any time.

This makes integrating ENS a breeze and an essential tool for any Dapp
developer. Once ENS is setup with Fleek, the developer can simply forget about
it and focus on his app.

# Your Turn!

Deploy your site on IPFS and set up your ENS domain on Fleek! We have clear
directions in the [Fleek ENS docs](http://docs.fleek.co/domain-management/ens-
domains) to guide you.

You will reap the benefits of a fully decentralized application through its
file system AND its domain.

Now it’s your turn to [Decentralize
Everything](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WSN5BaCzsbo)!

  * [Sign up](https://app.fleek.co) to try for yourself
  * [Join](https://slack.fleek.co/) the #community slack channel
  * [Follow](https://twitter.com/FleekHQ) us on Twitter
  * [Read](https://docs.fleek.co/) our Tech Docs
  * Contact us at support@fleek.co

Published 21 May 2020

  * [Tutorial](../../tag/tutorial/)
  * [ENS](../../tag/ens/)

Fleek is all you need to build websites and apps on the new Open Web:
permissionless, trustless, censorship resistant, and free of centralized
gatekeepers. Welcome to the new internet.[](https://www.twitter.com/FleekHQ)

