![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/get-hopping-faster-making-privacy-easier-with-qr-codes/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/get-hopping-faster-making-privacy-easier-with-qr-codes/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/get-hopping-faster-making-privacy-easier-with-qr-codes/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/get-hopping-faster-making-privacy-easier-with-qr-codes/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/get-hopping-faster-making-privacy-easier-with-qr-codes/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/get-hopping-faster-making-privacy-easier-with-qr-codes/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Get hopping faster: Making privacy easier with QR
codes](/static/50b4f442716786670e5e9fded6c415be/Orchid_BlogImage_QR.jpg)

# Get hopping faster: Making privacy easier with QR codes

Jan 21, 2020  
  

At Orchid, we’re committed to growing the privacy network so anyone, anywhere
can access the Orchid VPN. That’s why we’re excited to announce an improvement
to our user interface that simplifies our users’ first steps to get Orchid up
and running.

Orchid is a unique VPN because it requires an Orchid account funded with our
digital currency--OXT. VPN service in the app is purchased with OXT from the
connected account, and you pay only for what you use. While this model doesn’t
give users unlimited service, we do offer something else -- unlimited devices!
There is no limit to the number of devices or people that you can share your
account with.

And creating and sharing Orchid accounts just got a lot easier, thanks to our
new QR code sharing and scanning feature.

If you’re a new user, read on. If you already have an Orchid account, feel
free to skip ahead to the “Existing Users” heading.

**New Users**

Before this update, the only way to create an account was to copy your
Ethereum wallet address into the app, copy the app’s signing key into the dapp
interface, and then create an account.

Now, account creation is more streamlined: As soon as your dapp browser
detects you have enough OXT (you can [get it on
Coinbase](https://www.coinbase.com/price/orchid)) and ETH in your wallet, you
can create an account. You need at least $4 worth of OXT and $1 in ETH to get
started, which gives you an estimated 60 gigabytes of VPN service. Once the
account is created, a shareable QR code appears that contains your account
credentials. Anyone can copy or scan that account into the app for a 1-step
setup.

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

**Existing Users**

Existing users also reap the benefits of the QR code functionality: You can
now share your account with all your devices and your friends easily. If you
already have an account set up, you can simply [share the QR code to spend OXT
from that account](https://www.orchid.com/join). The newly added device will
withdraw from the shared account’s wallet for VPN service.

**What’s Next?**

Over the coming months, Orchid will release updates that make it easier for
anyone, regardless of their technical skill and knowledge, to join the network
and control their privacy in a new way.

**Get Started**

We’ve created a step-by-step guide for the new sign-in process for our app
[here](https://www.orchid.com/join).

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)
  * [VPN](/tag/vpn/)
  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Get%20hopping%20faster%3A%20Making%20privacy%20easier%20with%20QR%20codes%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fget-
hopping-faster-making-privacy-easier-with-qr-codes%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fget-
hopping-faster-making-privacy-easier-with-qr-codes%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fget-
hopping-faster-making-privacy-easier-with-qr-codes%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

](/orchid-answers-the-communitys-questions-in-binance-espaol-ama/)

[

#### Orchid answers the community’s questions in Binance Español AMA

](/orchid-answers-the-communitys-questions-in-binance-espaol-ama/)

Feb 23, 2021

](/starting-today-it-only-costs-1-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

[

#### Starting today, it only costs $1 to get started with Orchid

](/starting-today-it-only-costs-1-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

Mar 25, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

