[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/b5bc00046c40&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderUser&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![The
LAO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/2*X_8LYIcePYE1DMhi8vcHFw.png)](/@thelaoofficial?source=post_page
-----b5bc00046c40--------------------------------)

[The LAO](/@thelaoofficial?source=post_page-----
b5bc00046c40--------------------------------)

Follow

Apr 27, 2020

·

4 min read

# Getting Ready for Lift Off: How to Contribute to the LAO

 _The LAO is launching tomorrow, April 28, 2020. Here, we have a breakdown and
walkthrough on how you can contribute to and join The LAO._

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/0*V79Q9u19QEV4eWRS)

The post COVID — 19 the world is rapidly changing. Traditional assumptions are
giving way to a new, more modern society.

For the past twenty years, many in Silicon Valley have built a narrative that
the only way to build powerful, impactful technology has been to pick up your
stakes and move to California. That assumption has changed over the past
decade but it is only accelerating with blockchain.

In 2008, after the mortgage crisis, Bitcoin emerged from an overlooked corner
of the Internet. Although the notion of digital internet money certainly was
not novel, Bitcoin broke a multi-decade dilemma, bringing to life a monetary
system relying on the certainty of math. Bitcoin didn’t trust, it verified.

Several years later, Ethereum, a roving global band of cypherpunks, blazed a
wider path generalizing Bitcoin into a more generic blockchain that could
serve as the backbone for global commerce and the next generation of the
Internet. This emergent techno-class realized quickly, and by design, that
smart contracts can lower the cost of creating assets, bring communities
together and pool and allocate funds amongst each other — from anywhere in the
world.

Notably, neither of these projects were born in the heart of Silicon Valley,
but rather demonstrated the future of technological development: radically
global, Internet-native, emergent, and loosely coordinated. Blockchains have
challenged notions of centralization throughout the financial world and
venture capital is no different. The assumptions that you need to be in a
specific location on the planet and pass through effective middlemen (general
partners at venture capital funds) will be put to the test.

Indeed, one of the core purposes of The LAO is just that: to break apart
centralized venture capital funds to rebuild Silicon Valley, DAO by DAO. By
design, DAOs create an open, decentralized network that is bottom-up
controlled and commanded by the group. With Ethereum, venture capital funds no
longer need to be constrained to one state, one nation, or a handful of global
cities.

To do this, we need to rebuild [The
DAO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_DAO_\(organization\)), but do so in a
way that prevents it from being shut down or FUD’d by the legacy world. The
LAO aims to comply with US law, building a democratically managed
decentralized organization that can invest in blockchain-based projects in a
snap, through the [LAO’s dapp](/@thelaoofficial/the-lao-an-early-sneak-
peek-a0c9be66a3ae) and extensions to [MolochDAO’s smart contract
code](https://github.com/MolochVentures/moloch/blob/master/README.md).

#  **Joining The LAO**

Tomorrow, on April 28th, The LAO will be open for contributions at **12:00p
(EST) / 9a (PST) / 6p (CET)**. Each member can contribute 120 eth for 1% of
the LAO’s voting rights and profits (up to 9% or 1,080 eth). If you’re
interested in becoming a member of The LAO, you can pre-register
[here](https://www.thelao.io/verify).

The power of the OLE stack (Ethereum, ChainLink, and OpenLaw) means that all
relevant legal documents including subscription agreements will be generated
for parties to easily come to agreement on relevant market terms. The sale
will remain open until all units have been sold.

To start, members must complete the accreditation process
[here](https://www.thelao.io/verify), at which point they will get a
notification that all the materials are correct and their ETH address has been
whitelisted.

The whitelisted address will open the sale site. Once inside the sale site,
you will be able to select the amount you want to contribute from your wallet
([Metamask](https://metamask.io/), [GnosisSafe](https://gnosis-safe.io/),
[Rainbow](https://rainbow.me/), or most other wallets available through Wallet
Connect). We wrap your eth and send it into the Moloch v2 smart contracts for
processing. Once the transaction has cleared, each member will receive a
formal proposal to join The LAO and confirmation of unit ownership. You will
sign all of the relevant documents through the sale process, so please read
them carefully.

After contributing your ether, then there is a 14 day processing period to
finish the approval of the application and fully execute the transaction. This
is due to the nature of the [Moloch v2](https://github.com/openlawteam/TheLAO)
smart contracts, which have a default seven day voting period and grace period
to allow existing members to “rage quit” if they disagree with your
membership. Over this period, the members, coming on a first-come, first-serve
basis will be onboarded to a members-only slack and call to begin organizing
governance around The LAO.

In a matter of clicks, you can join a DAO. We’ve come a long way in the
Ethereum community and are now bringing to life new structures that can fund
entrepreneurs with less of a need for centralized parties. The LAO will have
no general partner and no carry and investors can exit at will. The LAO will
make capital for projects fast, easy, and seamless. Projects can simply submit
a proposal, the members can then vote on it, and then, if more members vote
yes than no for the project, the project will receive funding automatically —
powered through the use of smart contracts.

#  **Learn More**

If you would like more information about becoming a LAO member or project,
please reach out to us at [hello@thelao.io](http://hello@thelao.io/). For
further information, check out our [docs](https://docs.thelao.io/), which
cover questions about The LAO’s structure and operation, or hit us up via
[email](http://hello@thelao.io/) or
[telegram.](https://t.me/joinchat/FLvdBBVz3o9pfi-rfd9BqQ)

\--

\--

\--

## [More from The LAO](/@thelaoofficial?source=post_page-----
b5bc00046c40--------------------------------)

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F71c8a361b148&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40thelaoofficial%2Fgetting-
ready-for-lift-off-how-to-contribute-to-the-
lao-b5bc00046c40&newsletterV3=61217eadf32d&newsletterV3Id=71c8a361b148&user=The+LAO&userId=61217eadf32d&source=-----b5bc00046c40
---------------------subscribe_user-----------)

A For-Profit, Limited Liability Autonomous Organization, powered by
@OpenLawOfficial.

Love podcasts or audiobooks? Learn on the go with our new app.

[Try
Knowable](https://knowable.fyi/?utm_source=medium&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=medium-
post-footer&source=post_page-----b5bc00046c40--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Suter
Chef](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*gCmUax53n64SWSpRnU3-XA.jpeg)](/@suterusu?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Suter Chef

](/@suterusu?source=post_internal_links---------0----------------------------)

in

[Suterusu

](https://medium.com/suterusu?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Suterusu：Functional Privacy Protection and Rule Transparency

](/suterusu/suterusu-functional-privacy-protection-and-rule-
transparency-2d96a491a45a?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Confideal](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*TvS8PqUQ8LNKopObEUPglg.jpeg)](/@confideal?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Confideal

](/@confideal?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Smart Contracts: How I learned to stop worrying by relying on Blockchain?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*QhgEKkylPJB8cQJWgX9iqg.jpeg)](/@confideal/smart-
contracts-how-i-learned-to-stop-worrying-by-using-
confideal-b5b414c65776?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Tristram
Waye](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*LncCzoFJbtbW_DzbXsA3jA.jpeg)](/@twaye?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Tristram Waye

](/@twaye?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

## What if the future of Blockchain came with a map?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*hmQjpFWvxDInAWCMhpH38w.png)](/@twaye/what-
if-the-future-of-blockchain-came-with-a-
map-f745b81db5e?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![XT.com](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*-b2UqXn8fCFR6pK8NOxNWg.jpeg)](/@XT_com?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[XT.com

](/@XT_com?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

in

[XT.com

](https://medium.com/xt-com?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## [XT] Daily Blockchain Newsfeed, Wednesday, December 2nd

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*BaRNKUuBlEXgYIdesv95_A.jpeg)](/xt-
com/xt-daily-blockchain-newsfeed-wednesday-
december-2nd-782d5853a8ea?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![XT.com](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*-b2UqXn8fCFR6pK8NOxNWg.jpeg)](/@XT_com?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[XT.com

](/@XT_com?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

in

[XT.com

](https://medium.com/xt-com?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## [XT] Daily Blockchain Newsfeed, Thursday, May 28th

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*dSU21-xp63EtscPGVtm9kQ.png)](/xt-
com/xt-daily-blockchain-newsfeed-thursday-
may-28th-a1433628daaf?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![EL
priist](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*cqi1VKOsZbSyuZwa)](/@stretch0996?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[EL priist

](/@stretch0996?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Unmarshal entering the NFT space, what this means

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*HH_w6coYhLimYMAYBfBHuQ@2x.jpeg)](/@stretch0996/unmarshal-
entering-the-nft-space-what-this-means-2843669547a1?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[[![Blockpact
Capital](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*NsUefGwQxJAA-2nFwKZW8g.png)](/@blockpactcapital?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Blockpact Capital

](/@blockpactcapital?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Blockpact Capital invests in WAM App

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Hg6LbbZv6ABxl_xpSpUKig.png)](/@blockpactcapital/blockpact-
capital-invests-in-wam-app-10904e9b957a?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Zahrul
Fuadi](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*eP9yqyf4WZNQuNZX)](/@zahrulfuadi?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Zahrul Fuadi

](/@zahrulfuadi?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Elysian Finance Introduction

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*ItAg5zWES1PrTJkiTX-
phA.png)](/@zahrulfuadi/elysian-finance-introduction-
bb0986ad2423?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----b5bc00046c40--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
b5bc00046c40--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
b5bc00046c40--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
b5bc00046c40--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
b5bc00046c40--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----b5bc00046c40--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----b5bc00046c40--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40thelaoofficial%2Fgetting-
ready-for-lift-off-how-to-contribute-to-the-lao-b5bc00046c40&source=post_page
--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![The
LAO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/2*X_8LYIcePYE1DMhi8vcHFw.png)](/@thelaoofficial)

[

## The LAO

](/@thelaoofficial)

608 Followers

A For-Profit, Limited Liability Autonomous Organization, powered by
@OpenLawOfficial.

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F71c8a361b148&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40thelaoofficial%2Fgetting-
ready-for-lift-off-how-to-contribute-to-the-
lao-b5bc00046c40&newsletterV3=61217eadf32d&newsletterV3Id=71c8a361b148&user=The+LAO&userId=61217eadf32d&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![CYBAVO
Inc.](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*QIy-I3YFsvXqvDi66KjSVw.png)](/@cybavo?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------2b00981b_d5be_43fb_ad74_5d6f8bfac754-------)

[CYBAVO Inc.

](/@cybavo?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
2b00981b_d5be_43fb_ad74_5d6f8bfac754-------)

## The Rise of DAOs: How They Can Transform Institutional Decision-making

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*YFKiG_pNX_uTB-
Tt.png)](/@cybavo/the-rise-of-daos-how-they-can-transform-institutional-
decision-making-fbcfba67e8ba?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------2b00981b_d5be_43fb_ad74_5d6f8bfac754-------)

[[![Jaymin
Kim](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*n3zarXSkRIWEJY9dwAdfNA.png)](/@jaymin.kim?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------2b00981b_d5be_43fb_ad74_5d6f8bfac754-------)

[Jaymin Kim

](/@jaymin.kim?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
2b00981b_d5be_43fb_ad74_5d6f8bfac754-------)

## CryptoPunks’ immutable error on Blockchain — Risk implications for digital
commerce

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*9WCzU2otQ73tHLSRB1mzYQ.png)](/@jaymin.kim/cryptopunks-
immutable-error-on-blockchain-risk-implications-for-digital-commerce-
ce8e26f24872?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
2b00981b_d5be_43fb_ad74_5d6f8bfac754-------)

[[![NFT
Tech](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*ANZbLR4sASsedQaXuokgNg.png)](/@nfttechnologies?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------2b00981b_d5be_43fb_ad74_5d6f8bfac754-------)

[NFT Tech

](/@nfttechnologies?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
2b00981b_d5be_43fb_ad74_5d6f8bfac754-------)

## The NFT Technologies Manifesto: Part 3

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*EjRia3bfAO1QyHvpuvF4eQ.png)](/@nfttechnologies/the-
nft-technologies-manifesto-part-3-d262e625e646?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------2b00981b_d5be_43fb_ad74_5d6f8bfac754-------)

[[![Antalpha](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*cmaXhJd9QM62Qoos9xrTrA.png)](/@antalpha?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------2b00981b_d5be_43fb_ad74_5d6f8bfac754-------)

[Antalpha

](/@antalpha?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
2b00981b_d5be_43fb_ad74_5d6f8bfac754-------)

## Antalpha Ventures: Building the Web 3.0

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*8rqpqSKxYaUbG9TT)](/@antalpha/antalpha-
ventures-building-the-web-3-0-23709fca1e9f?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------2b00981b_d5be_43fb_ad74_5d6f8bfac754-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

