[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/b71163940332&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![GiveCrypto.org](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*RzcvhdTACZkQx2pOonnqfg.png)](https://medium.com/givecrypto?source=post_page
-----b71163940332--------------------------------)

Published in

[GiveCrypto.org

](https://medium.com/givecrypto?source=post_page-----
b71163940332--------------------------------)

[![Joe
Waltman](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/2*uvJU12PBrzr_IEkLV6-_LA.jpeg)](/@joewaltman?source=post_page
-----b71163940332--------------------------------)

[Joe Waltman](/@joewaltman?source=post_page-----
b71163940332--------------------------------)

Follow

Jul 31, 2020

·

4 min read

# GiveCrypto Monthly Update — July 2020

## Ambassador Program completed, marketplace update and our fraud
prevention/detection plan

# Venezuelan Ambassador Program Completed

Phase 4 of the Ambassador Program ended earlier this month. As described in
previous reports, this phase includes a Randomized Controlled Trial that
compares the impact of crypto vs. cash transfers. We sent weekly payments of
$10 to approximately one thousand people in Venezuela over the course of
fifteen weeks (March to July).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*1dQltsHsFXU9l3prLl8_iw.png)

We asked recipients impact questions at four different points; at the
beginning, after five weeks, after ten weeks and after fifteen weeks. The
questions covered food security, psychological wellbeing, social distancing
and household consumption. We are processing the results of the surveys and
will publish a paper with all of the details. Below are some preliminary
summaries of the data.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1192/1*9oDkCU7FRAvJlqyTGDqy2g.png)

Questions from the impact survey

Since there are many outcomes in each area, we combine them into one index.
The indices are normalized such that the control group has a mean of zero at
baseline; a higher value indicates better outcomes. These indices tell us the
overall movements of the outcome variables, even if it may be difficult to
detect movements from each single outcome variable. We have yet to incorporate
outcomes on food consumption (monetary value of food consumed) as this
variable requires more cleaning.

As can be seen below, both crypto and cash significantly improve food
security. Crypto might also improve psychological wellbeing, although this
result is not statistically significant. We saw no meaningful differences in
the amount of social distancing between groups.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1260/0*1Mi88v5tXi80W8jD)

 _At week 15, both the cash and crypto treatments significantly improve food
security compared to control._

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1260/0*MEB6lEMHXca3_D26)

 _At week 15, cash improves psychological well being relative to the control
group; crypto also directionally improves psychological well being, but the
result is not statistically significant._

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1260/0*Aff0TzlqSs4aH3gK)

 _The treatments have no impact on social distancing as measured by how often
people leave home in the previous week._

# Crypto Donation Marketplace

We are currently developing a [crypto donation
marketplace](/givecrypto/givecrypto-monthly-update-june-2020-f73bc2e4e86e). We
spent the first half of July finalizing the prototype and are now implementing
the service. Below are some decisions we made about the marketplace’s v1
feature set, which we expect to launch in mid-September.

  * Anybody will be able to apply for help and/or donate to a recipient
  * All recipients will receive a set amount of crypto for six weeks
  * The amount each recipient receives will depend on their location and will be adjusted based on the World Bank’s PPP [conversion factor](https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/PA.NUS.PPPC.RF) (for example, a recipient in Bolivia will receive $21 per week and a recipient in Egypt will receive $14 per week)
  * Recipients will need to provide a description of what they will do with the money as part of their application
  * Applications will be voted on by other users and recipients with more positive votes will be surfaced to the top of the feed and should have a higher likelihood of getting funded

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*TwxUgvojtgp3W3VX)

We are excited to get this into people’s hands and evolve the service based on
their usage.

# Fraud Prevention and Detection

If you are giving away money on the internet, you will attract fraudsters. We
designed our previous programs so that funds could only go to people that were
selected by trusted ambassadors. Even in this controlled environment, we still
encountered a modest amount of fraud.

A key feature of the crypto donation marketplace is the ability for anybody to
request funds, which exposes us to a new level of potential fraud. Although we
can’t anticipate all potential fraud vectors, we have incorporated some basic
fraud prevention and detection into the initial version of the service.
Obviously, we will enhance these systems as we evolve the service.

It is important to first distinguish between prevention and detection. We
define prevention as the ability to identify a fraudulent user before their
request is published on the site. Detection is the ability to identify a
fraudulent user after they have received funds.

##  **Fraud Prevention**

Fraud prevention for v1 will focus on fake accounts. We will use a combination
of third party verification services along with analysis of the information
that we collect from the user to calculate a risk score. Users with scores
above a certain level will be flagged for manual review and/or deactivated.

##  **Fraud Detection**

Fraud detection is the ability to identify fraudulent behavior among people
that have received our funds and will be one of the key metrics that we track
and share with supporters. Fraud detection for v1 will involve manual and
automated blockchain analysis to determine where the funds are flowing.

We will assign a risk score to different accounts based on the downstream
transfer behavior. We will also perform some manual follow-ups with randomly
selected recipients to help us validate the score.

# Staying Connected

As always, we love to hear from supporters outside of our updates and events.
Please follow along on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/givecrypto) and [our
blog](https://medium.com/givecrypto) for updates on our programs.

\--

\--

\--

## [More from GiveCrypto.org](/givecrypto?source=post_page-----
b71163940332--------------------------------)

A new charitable organization that accepts and distributes cryptocurrency to
create impact.

[Read more from GiveCrypto.org](/givecrypto?source=post_page-----
b71163940332--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Devon
Ellett](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@nonexpansibility1960?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Devon Ellett

](/@nonexpansibility1960?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## {UPDATE} Swimming World Compete Hack Free Resources Generator

](/@nonexpansibility1960/update-swimming-world-compete-hack-free-resources-
generator-9d441faeb31c?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Kengo Masuyama ｜
DJT](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*eGeaEu2inaP6Ieq7qzt8Qg.png)](/@masuyamak?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Kengo Masuyama ｜ DJT

](/@masuyamak?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

in

[NFT/ブロックチェーンゲーム事業支援サービス「NFTPLUS」

](https://medium.com/mchplus?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## [MCH+] $MATIC giveaway campaign!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Ka8-AHCSdTjwQNVuAE96kg.png)](/mchplus/mchplus-
matic-giveaway-campaign-6d5079d4439f?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Quinn
Addia](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@intensates2010?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Quinn Addia

](/@intensates2010?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## {UPDATE} Crazy 8s ? Card Game Hack Free Resources Generator

](/@intensates2010/update-crazy-8s-card-game-hack-free-resources-
generator-81b5afa43bc7?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Saurabh
Shashwat](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*FP76D5Isk4ulg1EbnWIaqw.jpeg)](/@anukritisaurabh?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Saurabh Shashwat

](/@anukritisaurabh?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

in

[DataDrivenInvestor

](https://medium.com/datadriveninvestor?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## What is the problem with IoT security?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*YY-QkyRdV-
LTJa12)](/datadriveninvestor/what-is-the-problem-with-iot-
security-b8f98f5a6fa9?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Prof Bill Buchanan
OBE](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*H2rG3QLPlapx0qVdkPX8iA.jpeg)](/@billatnapier?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Prof Bill Buchanan OBE

](/@billatnapier?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

in

[ASecuritySite: When Bob Met Alice

](https://medium.com/asecuritysite-when-bob-met-
alice?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

## When Bob Met Alice Who Met Carol

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Rwtc9jEs6wRXxGFL0fmcgw.png)](/asecuritysite-
when-bob-met-alice/when-bob-met-alice-who-met-
carol-27f36cc19d39?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Prof Bill Buchanan
OBE](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*H2rG3QLPlapx0qVdkPX8iA.jpeg)](/@billatnapier?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Prof Bill Buchanan OBE

](/@billatnapier?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[ASecuritySite: When Bob Met Alice

](https://medium.com/asecuritysite-when-bob-met-
alice?source=post_internal_links---------5----------------------------)

## Towards Larger Public Keys For Key Exchange

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*ruJcEkKMaKOEN2A4vojqTg.jpeg)](/asecuritysite-
when-bob-met-alice/towards-larger-public-keys-for-key-
exchange-791901c5db9a?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Alirity
Team](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*YtDvUP-2x93J7o1O_iQPyQ.png)](/@alirityteam?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Alirity Team

](/@alirityteam?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[Alirity on Cyber Security

](https://medium.com/the-analysts-on-cyber-security?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

## Measuring Security Value

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*LIEhTbm6rVKSFOfH)](/the-
analysts-on-cyber-security/measuring-security-
value-8a5a42e1adef?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Christi](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*jKT14EtCBRnm1ILE1fgvHg.jpeg)](/@chayne?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Christi

](/@chayne?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

## Why you need to protect your privacy online — and how to do it

![A person typing on the keyboard of a
laptop.](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*MhmcDadt6VuzNMhe)](/@chayne/why-
you-need-to-protect-your-privacy-online-and-how-to-do-
it-b67673372cdf?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----b71163940332--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
b71163940332--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
b71163940332--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
b71163940332--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
b71163940332--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----b71163940332--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----b71163940332--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fgivecrypto%2Fgivecrypto-
monthly-update-july-2020-b71163940332&source=post_page
--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Joe
Waltman](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/2*uvJU12PBrzr_IEkLV6-_LA.jpeg)](/@joewaltman)

[

## Joe Waltman

](/@joewaltman)

532 Followers

ED at [GiveCrypto.org](http://GiveCrypto.org)

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F266a93701f77&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fgivecrypto%2Fgivecrypto-
monthly-update-
july-2020-b71163940332&newsletterV3=8260eeddc111&newsletterV3Id=266a93701f77&user=Joe+Waltman&userId=8260eeddc111&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![STEPHENS](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*FGBSQ8COmSYRqLDL)](/@_STEPHENS?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------47a221d9_20a4_469b_a0b4_497d859f2a55-------)

[STEPHENS

](/@_STEPHENS?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
47a221d9_20a4_469b_a0b4_497d859f2a55-------)

## NIFTY ROW NFT MARKETPLACE TESTNET[DEMO] GUIDE

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*HEmpAO-s06a5ofZesRPr3w.png)](/@_STEPHENS/nifty-
row-nft-marketplace-testnet-demo-guide-e1ba8f96cc8f?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------47a221d9_20a4_469b_a0b4_497d859f2a55-------)

[[![HSC
Believer](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*52o8nPRmBTqYQDma-t7fng.jpeg)](/@hscbeliever?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------47a221d9_20a4_469b_a0b4_497d859f2a55-------)

[HSC Believer

](/@hscbeliever?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
47a221d9_20a4_469b_a0b4_497d859f2a55-------)

## HSC Believer: HSC On-Chain Projects Weekly Report（2022/3/21–2022/3/27）

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*h4I9LZtsxvlqhx6VPfnTzA.png)](/@hscbeliever/hsc-
believer-hsc-on-chain-projects-weekly-
report-2022-3-21-2022-3-27-e06a1cde7569?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------47a221d9_20a4_469b_a0b4_497d859f2a55-------)

[[![Horizon Finance](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Bpch_sR-
mLvbWDsEzEldYw.png)](/@horizonfinance?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------47a221d9_20a4_469b_a0b4_497d859f2a55-------)

[Horizon Finance

](/@horizonfinance?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
47a221d9_20a4_469b_a0b4_497d859f2a55-------)

## Horizon Finance Launched V2 Product

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*DnNuTWgMRtlFkP6q)](/@horizonfinance/horizon-
finance-launched-v2-product-c10e8d61acac?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------47a221d9_20a4_469b_a0b4_497d859f2a55-------)

[[![Enzo
W](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*vVmNXVmg_dW_STWO.jpg)](/@enzo_20251?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------47a221d9_20a4_469b_a0b4_497d859f2a55-------)

[Enzo W

](/@enzo_20251?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
47a221d9_20a4_469b_a0b4_497d859f2a55-------)

## 22–02–17 Announcement-February 17 2022 Program Guidelines Update

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*fl8h6eEuXO2oSovJ.png)](/@enzo_20251/22-02-17-announcement-
february-17-2022-program-guidelines-
update-509a1075b9e7?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
47a221d9_20a4_469b_a0b4_497d859f2a55-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

