[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Glossary of Terms

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Glossary of Terms

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

May 2019

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

## **Blockchain Terms**

## Input from: www.blockgeeks.com

Posted by Lawrence Lundy - May 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

May 2019

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

**51% attack**

An attack where a single entity controls more than half of the network hash
rate, allowing them to stop/change transactions, double spend and take over
other mining operations.

**Airdrop**

A token distribution mechanism in which tokens as given away for free.

**Altcoin**

Umbrella term for any cryptocurrency that is not Bitcoin popular from 2009 to
2017.

**Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC)**

An integrated circuit that is designed for a specific task rather than for
general purpose tasks like central processing units (CPU). They are popular
for deep learning and cryptocurrency mining because they are typically more
efficient.

**Atomic swap**

Exchange of one token for another without the need for an intermediary like an
exchange. On September 20, 2017,[
Decred](https://blockgeeks.com/guides/decred/) and Litecoin did the first
known successful implementation of the atomic swap.

**Autonomous Economic Agents (AEA)**

Software programs with unique identifiers that do not need to be explicitly
programmed by a human and are able to engage in economic activity.

**Bitcoin**

Bitcoin is a [cryptocurrency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptocurrency), a
form of electronic cash. It is a decentralized [digital
currency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_currency) that can be sent
from user to user on the [peer-to-peer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peer-to-
peer) bitcoin network without the need for intermediaries.

**Block**

Blocks are packages of data that carry permanently recorded data on the
blockchain network.

**Blockchain**

A blockchain, originally block chain, is a type of distributed ledger. It is a
growing list of linked
[records](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Record_\(computer_science\)), called
blocks. Each block contains a cryptographic hash of the previous block, a
timestamp, and transaction data. A blockchain is known as permissionless if
there are no rules as to which node can validate a record or permissioned if
only approved nodes can validate transactions.

**Block Explorer**

Block explorer is an online tool to view all transactions, past and current,
on the blockchain. They provide useful information such as network hash rate
and transaction growth.

**Block Height**

The number of blocks connected on the blockchain.

**Block Reward**

A form of incentive for the miner who successfully calculated the hash in a
block during mining. In blockchains that use a mining model, verification of
transactions on the blockchain generates new tokens in the process, and the
miner is rewarded with a part of those.

**Byzantine Fault Tolerance**

The condition of a computer system where components may fail and there is
imperfect information on whether a component has failed. In the case of
distributed systems, Byzantine Fault Tolerance is crucial to avoid the same
token being spent twice.

**Confirmation**

The successful act of hashing a transaction and adding it to the blockchain.

**Consensus**

Consensus is achieved when all participants of the network agree on the
validity of the transactions, ensuring that the ledgers are exact copies of
each other.

**Continuous Organisation**

Pioneered by Thibauld Favre **,** a continuous organisation is a type of
organisation that allows investors to continuously purchase a security token
which is claim on future generated cash flows. ****

**Cryptocurrency**

Also known as a coin, crypotoken, payment token or exchange token. A
cryptocurrency is a digital asset not issued or backed by a central bank or
other central authority designed as a medium of exchange.

**Cryptography**

The practice and study of techniques for secure communication in the presence
of adversaries.

**Cryptographic Hash Function**

Cryptographic hashes produce a fixed-size and unique hash value from variable-
size transaction input. The SHA-256 computational algorithm is an example of a
cryptographic hash.

**Directed acyclic graph (DAG)**

A graph-type data structure in which connections between nodes have a
direction and the same node is never encountered twice. A tree structure is an
example of a DAG structure.

**Decentralised system**

A type of system in which lower level components act on local information to
achieve global goals without the coordination of a central controller.

**Decentralised application (Dapp)**

An application that is open source, operates autonomously, has its data stored
on a blockchain, incentivised in the form of tokens and operates on a protocol
that shows proof of value.

**Decentralised Autonomous Organization (DAO)**

A DAO is a smart contract or set of smart contracts that perform actions based
on programmed rules and is coordinated through distributed consensus.

**Decentralised exchange (DEX)**

A type of exchange in which cryptocurrency holders exchange with each other
directly, on a peer-to-peer basis, without needing to trust an intermediary as
a custodian.

**DeFi (Decentralized Finance)**

The name for a movement to build financial tools on public open source
infrastructure like Ethereum.

### **Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs)**

A new type of identifier that is globally unique, resolvable with high
availability, and cryptographically verifiable.

**Distributed system**

A system whose components are located on different [networked
computers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_network), which communicate
and coordinate their actions by [passing
messages](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Message_passing) to one another

**Distributed ledger**

Also called a shared ledger or distributed ledger technology or DLT is a
consensus of replicated, shared, and synchronized digital data geographically
spread across multiple sites, countries, or institutions. One form of
distributed ledger design is a blockchain, which can be either publicly
accessible or private.

**Difficulty**

This refers to how easily a data block of transaction information can be mined
successfully.

**Digital Signature**

A digital code generated by public key encryption that is attached to an
electronically transmitted document to verify its contents and the sender’s
identity.

**Double Spending**

Double spending occurs when a sum of money is spent more than once.

**Ethereum**

An open-source, public, blockchain-based distributed computing platform and
operating system with smart contract functionality.

**Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)**

A Turing complete virtual machine that allows anyone to execute arbitrary EVM
Byte Code. Every Ethereum node runs on the EVM to maintain consensus across
the blockchain.

**Federated Learning**

A machine learning technique whereby a central learning model is trained on
distributed data sources. This in contrast with dominant machine learning
approaches in which training data is collected in a single place.

**Forking**

Refers to the process of creating alternate versions of a piece of software.
In a blockchain context, a hard fork is a permanent divergence of the
blockchain and a soft fork requires all participants to upgrade to the latest
software but there is no divergence of the chain.

**Genesis Block**

The first or first few blocks of a blockchain.

**Governance**

The process of making decisions. In a distributed systems context, this refers
to how decisions can be made by as many people as possible. The concept of on-
chain governance is a way for all participants in the network to vote on
decisions.

**Hash**

The act of performing a hash function on the output data. This is used for
confirming token transactions.

**Hash Rate**

Measurement of performance for the mining rig is expressed in hashes per
second.

**Homomorphic Encryption**

A form of [encryption](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Encryption) that allows
[computation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computation) on encrypted text so
that the underlying plain text never needs to be revealed.

**Initial Coin Offering (ICO)**

A token distribution mechanism whereby a project sells tokens in exchange for
bitcoin and ether during a contribution window for the purposes of funding the
development of the project.

**Initial Exchange Offering (IEO)**

A token distribution mechanism whereby a project conducts the token
distribution process directly on an exchange.

**Immutable**

In the context of blockchains, immutability means once data has been written
to a blockchain no one can change it. Seen as a critical feature of
blockchains that makes censorship too expensive for most entities.

**Interoperability**

A characteristic of a product or system, whose interfaces are designed to work
with other products or systems without any restrictions. In a blockchain
context it typically refers to tools that enable different blockchains to
communicate.

**InterPlanetary File System (IPFS)**

A peer-to-peer distributed file system that connect all computing devices with
the same system of files.

**Lockdrop**

A token distribution mechanism in which ETH is sent to a smart contract
address to be locked up. The longer the ETH is locked in the smart contract
the more tokens are provided. Currently being worked on by Edgewere.

**Liquid Airdrops**

A version of the lockdrop token distribution mechanism in which ETH is sent to
a smart contract address to be locked up. There is a fixed period to send
funds after which the smart contract creates a market in which users can earn
fees from trading on the market.

**Merkle Mine**

A token distribution mechanism in which participants are required to stake in
the network to receive tokens. Pioneered by Livepeer.

**Mining**

The act of validating blockchain transactions. The necessity of validation
warrants an incentive for the miners, usually in the form of coins. In this
cryptocurrency boom, mining can be a lucrative business when done properly. By
choosing the most efficient and suitable hardware and mining target, mining
can produce a stable form of passive income.

**Multi-Signature (Multi-sig)**

Multi-signature addresses provide an added layer of security by requiring more
than one key to authorize a transaction.

**Node**

A copy of the ledger operated by a participant of the blockchain network.

**Non-fungible tokens (NFT)**

A type of cryptographic token which represents something unique; non-fungible
tokens are thus not interchangeable unlike fungible cryptocurrencies.

**Off-chain transaction**

The movement of value outside of the blockchain

**Oracle**

A piece of software that finds and verifies real-world data and submits this
information to a blockchain to be used by smart contracts

**Peer to Peer (P2P)**

A network design whereby computers connect directly to each other rather than
a client-server model in which computers go through a server to communicate to
other computers.

**Plasma**

A technology to create new blockchains that are linked to one root blockchain.

**Private Key**

A string of data that allows you to access the tokens in a specific wallet.
They act as passwords that are kept hidden from anyone but the owner of the
address.

**Proof of Stake**

A consensus algorithm whereby new blocks are validated not by miners but by
validators chosen by how many tokens they hold.

**Proof of Work**

A consensus algorithm whereby new blocks are validated by miners rewarded with
tokens for solving cryptographic puzzles.

**Proof of Authority**

A consensus algorithm in which transactions are validated by approved
accounts, known as validators.

**Public Address**

The cryptographic hash of a public key. They act as email addresses that can
be published anywhere, unlike private keys.

**Secure Multi-Party Computations (sMPC)**

Privacy technique allowing different parties to express assertions about a
dataset that can be verified mathematically without having access to the
underlying dataset.

**Security token**

A type of cryptographic token that may provide rights such as ownership,
repayment of a specific sum of money, or entitlement to a share in future
profits. As such they are classified as a financial security and must be
registered with the appropriate financial regulator.

**Self-sovereign identity (SSI)**

The concept of individuals or organizations having sole ownership of their
digital and analog identities, and control over how their personal data is
shared and used.

**Sharding**

A technique whereby data is split up and stored separately. In the blockchain
context, it offers performance improvements as not all nodes have to process
the same transaction to achieve consensus and add a new block to the
blockchain.

**Sidechain**

A separate blockchain that is attached to its parent blockchain using a two-
way peg.

**Smart Contracts**

Smart contracts encode rules in a programmable language onto the blockchain
and are enforced by the participants of the network.

**Solidity**

Solidity is Ethereum’s programming language for developing smart contracts.

**Stablecoin**

A type of cryptographic token designed to minimize the volatility of the price
of the stablecoin, relative to some "stable" asset or basket of assets like
fiat.

**Staking**

The activity of putting down a token or ‘stake’ to perform an action on a
network that uses a proof-of-stake algorithm to achieve consensus. If the
desired action is observed, then the stake is returned, otherwise it is lost.
The idea is that good behaviours are encouraged because a staker doesn’t want
to lose their stake.

**State Channel**

A two-way pathway opened between two users that want to communicate with each
other in the form of transactions. It is used as a method of increasing the
performance of the underlying blockchain as transactions only need to be
entered on the blockchain when the users want to close the channel.

**Token Curated Registry (TCR)**

A list that is organised and maintained by votes from participants, backed by
staked tokens.

**Testnet**

A test blockchain used by developers to prevent expending assets on the main
chain.

**Transaction Block**

A collection of transactions gathered into a block that can then be hashed and
added to the blockchain.

**Transaction Fee**

All cryptocurrency transactions involve a small transaction fee. These
transaction fees add up to account for the block reward that a miner receives
when he successfully processes a block.

**Turing Complete**

Turing complete refers to the ability of a machine to perform calculations
that any other programmable computer is capable of. An example of this is the
Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM).

**Wallet**

A file that houses private keys. It usually contains a software client which
allows access to view and create transactions on a specific blockchain that
the wallet is designed for. Wallets are sometimes known as “hot” if they are
connected to the Internet and “cold” if they are not.

**Wallet address**

A place transactions can be sent to and from, represented by a string of
letters and numbers.

**Worklock**

A version of the lockdrop token distribution mechanism in which ETH is sent to
a smart contract address to be locked up and receives tokens in return. If the
participant uses the tokens for the intended purpose they will recoup the ETH,
but if they do not, they forfeit the escrowed ETH. Model being pioneered by
NuCypher.

**Utility token**

Also known as work tokens. A type of cryptographic token which can be redeemed
for access to a specific product or service that is typically provided using
distributed ledger technology.

**Zero-knowledge proof**

A cryptographic method by which one party (the prover) can prove to another
party (the verifier) that they know a value x, without conveying any
information apart from the fact that they know the value x. Useful for privacy
applications.

**Unspent transaction output (UTXO)**

A concept whereby unspent transaction outputs from previous transactions are
used to construct new transactions.



**Artificial Intelligence Terms**



**Algorithm**

Set of rules or a process to be followed in order to solve a problem

**Artificial general intelligence**

Type of artificial intelligence that would allow machines to perform any
intellectual task a human being can do. Experts disagree whether or not this
will ever be possible.

**Artificial intelligence**

Intelligence demonstrated by machines or computing systems

**Artificial neural network**

Computing system made up of interconnected processing elements, loosely
modelled on the neural networks of the human brain

**Big Data**

Data that is too large or complex to be managed using traditional data
analysis tools.

**Chatbot**

Computer program that simulates conversation with human users

**Deep learning**

Subset of machine learning where artificial neural networks can “learn” from
experience without human involvement

**Differential privacy**

A set of machine learning techniques for preventing a model from accidentally
memorizing secrets present in a training dataset during the learning process.

**Generative adversarial network (GAN)**

Type of artificial intelligence algorithm wherein two neural networks,
described as the generator and the discriminator, are pitted against each
other to generate original content

**Machine learning**

An application of artificial intelligence that enables a system to learn and
improve itself through experience

**Moore’s Law**

Observation made by Gordon Moore, founder of IBM, that the number of
transistors on an integrated circuit, and thus that circuit’s processing
power, doubles every two years.

**Predictive analytics**

Analysis of data, often using statistical models and forecast techniques, to
make predictions about the future

**Prescriptive analytics**

Analysis of data, often coupled with the running of optimization or simulation
algorithms, to map outcomes and advise on action

**Robot**

Programmable machine, typically one resembling a human, that’s able to
replicate certain human movements or carry out actions automatically

**Software agent**

Piece of software, or computer program, that acts on behalf of another user of
program

**Superintelligence**

Hypothetical agent that possesses intelligence far superior than that of any
human being

**Supervised learning**

Type of system in which input and output data is labelled for classification
in order to provide a learning basis for future data processing

**Unsupervised learning**

The training of an artificial intelligence system using data that isn’t
classified or labelled (as is the case in supervised learning) so that it
might act on that data without explicit guidance

**Virtual assistant**

Software agent such as Alexa, Siri or Cortana that performs tasks or services
for a user.



**Networking Technology Terms**

_Input from: www.westbase.io_



**5G**

5G is the fifth generation of mobile technology, not yet available but
undergoing development and testing today. 5G will offer greater capacity, be
faster, more energy-efficient and more cost-effective than any earlier network
in order to meet the expanding network demands of technologies such as the
Internet of Things. It follows 3G known as HSPA or HSPA+, and 4G also known as
LTE (Long Term Evolution)

**AAA**

Authentication, authorisation, and accounting (AAA) is a framework for
intelligently controlling access to computer resources, auditing usage,
enforcing policies, and providing the required information for billing
services.

**AP**

An access point, or AP, is a station which transmits and receives data in a
wireless local area network, connecting the users within the network and also
serving as the point of connection between the wireless and wired network.

**Application Programming Interface (API)**

A set of rules that enables developers to interact with software.

**Bluetooth**

Bluetooth is a [wireless](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wireless) technology
for exchanging data between fixed and mobile devices over short distances.

**Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE)**

Also known as BLE and Bluetooth Smart, Bluetooth Low Energy is a wireless
technology designed for low-power applications.

**Data Packets**

In order to transfer data over a network it must be broken down into
manageable “chunks”, before being reassembled at the receiving end of the
communication to deliver the data in its original form. Data packets are what
we call these chunks.

**Domain Name System (** **DNS)**

A distributed database that handles the mapping between readable domain names
([www.duckduckgo.com](http://www.duckduckgo.com)) and the numerical Internet
addresses (212.54.40.25).

**DSL**

Digital Subscriber Line is a family of technologies that is used to provide
internet access by transmitting digital data over telephone lines.

**EDGE (Enhanced Data for Global Evolution)**

EDGE (also known as Enhanced GPRS or EGPRS) is a data system used on top of
GSM networks.

**Ethernet**

Ethernet is the most common type of connection used for a local area network
where data is transferred via cable connections.

**Firewall**

A network security system which controls incoming and outgoing traffic.
Controlled by a rule set, a firewall establishes a barrier between a trusted,
secure internal network and another network, e.g. the Internet, which isn’t
“known” and therefore not trusted and secure.

**Fog Computing**

A distributed infrastructure in which certain application processes or
services are managed at the edge of the network by a smart device, but others
are still managed in the cloud. It is, essentially, a middle layer between the
cloud and the hardware at the edge of the network to enable more efficient
data processing, analysis and storage, which is achieved by reducing the
amount of data which needs to be transported to the cloud.

**Gateway**

The point at which two different networks meet.

**Geofencing**

Allows users to set geographically based rules which can be used to perform
actions or alerts on a device automatically if it is moved outside a dedicated
area.

**Gateway GPRS Support Node (GGSN)**

A main component of the GPRS network. The GGSN is responsible for the
interworking between the GPRS network and external packet switched networks,
like the Internet and X.25 networks.

**General Packet Radio Service (GPRS)**

A packet-switching technology that enables data transfers through cellular
networks. It is used for mobile internet, MMS and other data communications.

**GPS (Global Positioning System)**

A satellite-based
[radionavigation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radionavigation-
satellite_service) system owned by the United States government and operated
by the United States Air Force.

**Internet of Things (IoT)**

An environment in which objects including machines, people and animals are
connected via a network. Data can be passed between the objects, each of which
is uniquely identifiable. A real-world example could be a patient wearing a
monitor that transmits health data for doctors to remotely view on their
tablet or PC, rather than having to be at the bedside.

**IP address**

A numerical label assigned to each and every device participating in a
computer network that uses the Internet Protocol for communication. It is
responsible for identifying the device and its location, and showing traffic
how to reach it.

**IPv4**

IPv4 stands for “Internet Protocol version 4” and is used to route, or direct,
traffic over the Internet. IPv4 uses a 32-bit address, meaning that there is a
limited number of addresses available for devices. This led to the creation of
IPv6.

**IPv6**

IPv6 stands for “Internet Protocol version 6” and is an updated version of
IPv4 using longer 64-bit IP addresses. IPv6 is critical to the success of the
Internet of Things as it delivers the volume of IP addresses required which
IPv4 cannot provide.

**Local Area Network (LAN)**

Refers to a computer network that spans a relatively small area such as a home
or business premise.

**LTE (Long Term Evolution)**

Another term used to describe 4G mobile technology. “4G” was originally used
to follow on from 3G, but the industry later felt that it didn’t appropriately
convey the progress of the technology, so they created “LTE” which has since
become a more recognised term.

**LTE-Advanced**

LTE-A and LTE-Advanced, also known as 4G+ / 4.5G, is a newer and faster
version of LTE/4G cellular connectivity. Utilising carrier aggregation, it
allows LTE-Advanced enabled devices to receive data from multiple bands in the
LTE spectrum, which provides a theoretical speed of 300 Mbps compared to the
100 Mbps theoretical speed you get on a standard LTE network.

**M2M**

Machine to Machine (M2M) refers to technologies that allow both wireless and
wired systems to communicate with other devices of the same type.

**Mesh Networks**

A [network](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Local_network) design in which the
infrastructure [nodes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Node_\(networking\))
(i.e. bridges, switches and other infrastructure devices) connect directly and
dynamically to as many other nodes as possible and cooperate with one another.

**Multiple In Multiple Out (MIMO)**

Refers to the use of multiple antennas at the transmitter and receiver in
order to improve communication performance.

**Mobile Network Operator (MNO)**

A provider of wireless communications services and is also known as a wireless
carrier, cellular company or mobile network carrier. An MNO owns or controls
all elements necessary to sell and deliver services to an end user, such as
radio spectrum allocation and wireless network infrastructure. An example
would be Vodafone.

**Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS)**

A mechanism in high performance telecommunications networks that directs data
from one network node to the next based on short path labels rather than long
network addresses, avoiding complex lookups in a routing table.

**Mobile Virtual Network Operator (MVNO)**

A company which provides wireless communication services but doesn’t itself
own or control the necessary network elements, for example it may not have its
own licensed spectrum allocation. It instead resells services from an MNO,
although typically still has its own business infrastructure such as billing
capabilities.

**Network function virtualization (NFV)**

A network architecture concept that uses the technologies of IT virtualization
to virtualize entire classes of network node functions into building blocks
that may connect, or chain together, to create communication services.

**Packet Data Protocol (PDP)**

A network protocol used by packet switching external networks to communicate
with GPRS networks.

**Power over Ethernet (PoE)**

Refers to the use of Ethernet cabling to deliver electricity to devices.
Within an Ethernet cable there are spare wires not used for computing
purposes, which can therefore be repurposed to deliver electricity to devices
which have this functionality enabled.

**PSTN**

The Public Switched Telephone Network.

**Radio Spectrum**

Radio spectrum is made up of radio waves from a very low frequency up to very
high frequencies, and is divided into bands which are reserved for single use
or a range of compatible uses of data transmission. Allocations are agreed
internationally.

**RAN**

A Radio Access Network (RAN) refers to cellular networks, for example with GSM
and UMTS systems.

**Router**

Normally a hardware device responsible for forwarding pieces of information
both within and between networks. You’ll normally find a router at the gateway
between two different networks.

**Subscriber Identification Module (SIM)**

An integrated circuit that securely stores the international mobile subscriber
identity (IMSI) and the related key used to identify and authenticate
subscribers on mobile devices.

**Short Message Service (SMS)**

A text messaging service component of phone, web, or mobile communication
systems. It uses standardised communications protocols to allow fixed line or
mobile phone devices to exchange short text messages.

**Software Defined Networking (SDN)**

An approach to networking that enables administrators to manage networking
services through higher-level, or overlay functionality. It is designed to
make the network as agile and flexible as possible, while still retaining
control.

**Switch**

Similar to a router, a switch has the ability to forward information within a
network but cannot forward information between networks.

**Virtual Private Network (VPN)**

Used to extend a private network across a public network, most commonly the
Internet.

**WAN**

A Wide Area Network (WAN) is a computer network that spans a broad area such
as a town or county. It normally consists of two or more local area networks.

**WiFi**

WiFi allows devices within a designated area to connect to the Internet
wirelessly. There are different types of WiFi, each of which offers different
speeds and range.



**Outlier Ventures terms**

**Convergence**

The idea that different data technologies like artificial intelligence, the
internet of things, and blockchains are merging into a single system.

**The Convergence Ecosystem** ****

The Outlier Ventures investment thesis based around the idea of an emerging
open-source and decentralized data value chain: production of data (IoT),
distribution of data (blockchains), and consumption of data (artificial
intelligence).

**The Convergence Stack**

The technology stack that is needed to realise convergence. Covering hardware,
software, networking and applications, the stack underpins a confidential,
secure, and accessible digital infrastructure. These technologies are vital in
ensuring the benefits of technologies like the IoT and AI are shared
equitably.

**Web 3.0**

Typically refers to the vision of the decentralised web in which users control
of their own identity and data.

**Software**

Software is a set of instructions, data or programs used to operate computers
and execute specific tasks.

**Open Source**

Software that uses an open development process and is licensed to include the
source code to study, change, and [distribute the
software](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_distribution) free of any
restrictions.

**Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) Model**

A conceptual model that characterizes and standardizes the communication
functions of a telecommunication or computing system without regard to its
underlying internal structure and technology.

**Protocol**  
A set of rules for exchanging data over a network.

**Hardware**

Refers to computing hardware that includes all of the physical components of a
computer. Software is instructions that can be stored and run by hardware.

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

