[Go Back](../../)[Fleek.co](https://Fleek.co)

# Go with Hugo and Fleek

![](https://fleek-team-bucket.storage.fleek.co/thumbnails-
blog/HugoSocialImage.png)

In this tutorial, we will show you how to create a themed Hugo blog, make your
first blog post and how to share it with the world by hosting your site to
IPFS by using Fleek.

Let’s get started!

## Install HUGO

To install on Mac or Linux, we will need [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)
installed. Then, we can run:

    
    
    brew install hugo

For Windows, [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/) can be used for
installation with the following command:

    
    
    choco install hugo -confirm

Click [here](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing/) for more
information regarding installing Hugo. We can verify that installation was
successful by running:

    
    
    hugo version

In my case, the console returns the following:

    
    
    Hugo Static Site Generator v0.67.1/extended Linux/amd64 BuildDate: unknown

It’s a success! We can now create a new site.

## Create a new project

Run the command below to initialize a new project.

    
    
    hugo new site name_of_project

Now that the project is created, change directory into the newly created
project (`cd name_of_project`). Now run this command inside the project:

    
    
    hugo server

This will run your website on the localhost with live reload by going to
<http://localhost:1313>. But you might have noticed we are seeing…a blank
screen. That’s because we still need to select a theme!

## Selecting a theme

Hugo has a TON of great themes we can select from which you can browse by
clicking [here](https://themes.gohugo.io/). There’s one called Terminal which
looks nice so let’s use it. Here is the [theme’s
page](https://themes.gohugo.io/hugo-theme-terminal/) with more information and
a [demo](https://themes.gohugo.io/theme/hugo-theme-terminal/) too!

[ ![hugo themes](../../static/788911b1cdb12e86631b485a23505f03/d9199/hugo-
themes.png) ](../../static/788911b1cdb12e86631b485a23505f03/d5eae/hugo-
themes.png)

Clicking on Download will bring us to the [project’s GitHub
page](https://github.com/panr/hugo-theme-terminal). Now we need to get this
theme in our blog. Here’s what the file structure of the project should look
like right now:

    
    
    tree.
    
    .
    ├── archetypes
    │   └── default.md
    ├── config.toml
    ├── content
    ├── data
    ├── layouts
    ├── resources
    │   └── _gen
    │       ├── assets
    │       └── images
    ├── static
    └── themes

Run the following command in the project’s directory to install the theme by
the theme as a git submodule.

    
    
    git submodule add https://github.com/panr/hugo-theme-terminal.git themes/terminal

The theme is now installed! If you go to the themes folder, you will find
“terminal”, the theme we want to use. You will still not see anything if you
go to <http://localhost:1313>. That’s because we still need to configure the
theme.

## Configuring the theme

Let’s take a quick look at the site structure again.

    
    
    tree. -L 1
    
    
    .
    ├── archetypes
    ├── config.toml
    ├── content
    ├── data
    ├── layouts
    ├── resources
    ├── static
    └── themes

We have a config.toml file at the root of the project. The configuration that
goes into this file will change on a theme to theme basis, but very often the
theme’s page has a sample configuration that we can base ourselves on and
modify. So first we’ll go to the theme’s page: <https://themes.gohugo.io/hugo-
theme-terminal/> And find the section “How to Configure”

[ ![hugo theme
configure](../../static/282827ffbf07774a30c3aa88309fab88/d9199/hugo-theme-
configure.png) ](../../static/282827ffbf07774a30c3aa88309fab88/ccf0c/hugo-
theme-configure.png)

Then we copy all the content in the code box and copy-past it to config.toml.

Your config.toml file should look like this:

    
    
    baseurl = "/"
    languageCode = "en-us"
    theme = "terminal"
    paginate = 5
    
    [params]
      # dir name of your blog content (default is `content/posts`)
      contentTypeName = "posts"
    
      # ["orange", "blue", "red", "green", "pink"]
      themeColor = "orange"
    
      # if you set this to 0, only submenu trigger will be visible
      showMenuItems = 2
    
      # show selector to switch language
      showLanguageSelector = false
    
      # set theme to full screen width
      fullWidthTheme = false
    
      # center theme with default width
      centerTheme = false
    
      # set a custom favicon (default is a `themeColor` square)
      # favicon = "favicon.ico"
    
      # set all headings to their default size (depending on browser settings)
      # it's set to `true` by default
      # oneHeadingSize = false
    
    [languages]
      [languages.en]
        languageName = "English"
        title = "Terminal"
        subtitle = "A simple, retro theme for Hugo"
        keywords = ""
        copyright = ""
        menuMore = "Show more"
        readMore = "Read more"
        readOtherPosts = "Read other posts"
    
        [languages.en.params.logo]
          logoText = "Terminal"
          logoHomeLink = "/"
    
        [languages.en.menu]
          [[languages.en.menu.main]]
            identifier = "about"
            name = "About"
            url = "/about"
          [[languages.en.menu.main]]
            identifier = "showcase"
            name = "Showcase"
            url = "/showcase"

Now, let’s run the following command:

    
    
    hugo server

If we go to <http://localhost:1313>, we get a basic page.

[ ![basic page](../../static/f829ce713c4e0d34f6e1fce52a174c86/d9199/basic-
page.png) ](../../static/f829ce713c4e0d34f6e1fce52a174c86/f663d/basic-
page.png)

By tweaking the config.toml file we can change many things about our blog such
as menu items, color, etc… in an intuitive manner.

Here is my new configuration after modifying the blog to my liking:

    
    
    baseurl = "/"
    languageCode = "en-us"
    theme = "terminal"
    paginate = 5
    relativeUrls = true
    
    [params]
      # dir name of your blog content (default is `content/posts`)
      contentTypeName = "posts"
    
      # ["orange", "blue", "red", "green", "pink"]
      themeColor = "blue"
    
      # if you set this to 0, only submenu trigger will be visible
      showMenuItems = 1
    
      # show selector to switch language
      showLanguageSelector = false
    
      # set theme to full screen width
      fullWidthTheme = false
    
      # center theme with default width
      centerTheme = false
    
      # set a custom favicon (default is a `themeColor` square)
      # favicon = "favicon.ico"
    
      # set all headings to their default size (depending on browser settings)
      # it's set to `true` by default
      # oneHeadingSize = false
    
    [languages]
      [languages.en]
        languageName = "English"
        title = "Fleek and Hugo"
        subtitle = "Hugo Works Great with Fleek!!!"
        keywords = ""
        copyright = ""
        menuMore = "Show more"
        readMore = "Read more"
        readOtherPosts = "Read other posts"
    
        [languages.en.params.logo]
          logoText = "Hugo and Fleek"
          logoHomeLink = "/"
    
        [languages.en.menu]
          [[languages.en.menu.main]]
            identifier = "home"
            name = "Home"
            url = "/"
          [[languages.en.menu.main]]
            identifier = "about_fleek"
            name = "Learn About Fleek"
            url = "https://fleek.co"
          [[languages.en.menu.main]]
            identifier = "about_hugo"
            name = "Learn About Hugo"
            url = "https://gohugo.io"

Please note the line `relativeUrls = true` which I added at the top. This line
is important to make the blog work on IPFS gateways which use paths in their
URL in the format /ipfs/HASH. If you have issues having your site show CSS
styling on an IPFS gateway, that’s the line you are likely missing!

And the result below:

[ ![theme result](../../static/ba20563f24b9d8a8059d18848974e8ab/d9199/theme-
result.png) ](../../static/ba20563f24b9d8a8059d18848974e8ab/fba00/theme-
result.png)

But what is a blog without blog posts? Let’s create our first post now!

## Create a blog post

Run the following command:

    
    
    hugo new posts/hello-world.md

Now, a new file appeared in this location: `/content/posts/hello-world.md`.

Why did we add the blog post to `/posts`? Because that’s what I could gather
from looking at the `contentTypeName` variable in `config.toml`. So with this
theme, it is `/posts`, but other themes might require posts to be at a
different directory. Just make sure that the `config.toml` matches the
location of the blog posts.

So, let’s take a look at our newly created blog post.

    
    
    ---
    title: "Hello World"
    date: 2020-03-11T16:23:24-04:00
    draft: false
    ---

Title and date corresponding to the title of the blog post. Draft means the
blog post is in draft mode and will, therefore, not show up in the blog. We
can turn it to false to see the article once we are done writing our content.

You might have noticed that the blog post’s extension is `.md`, signaling that
the file is written in markdown. Markdown is a popular markup language. If
you’ve never heard of it, check out this [cheat
sheet](https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/). Markdown is pretty
straightforward and can get you productive immediately. Below, I’ve written a
sample blog post.

    
    
    ---
    title: "Hello World"
    date: 2020-03-11T16:23:24-04:00
    draft: false
    ---
    
    # Hello world!!
    
    Welcome to my **awesome** new blog everyone! My blog is deployed on [IPFS](https://ipfs.io) thanks to [Fleek](https://fleek.co) and using [Hugo](https://http://gohugo.io/).
    
    It was so **easy**!!

It won’t win an award, but it’s good enough! 😂

Now, we look at the blog through <http://localhost:1313>:

[ ![result with
post](../../static/b703ba49775e9072865b086577c1b4f1/d9199/result-with-
post.png) ](../../static/b703ba49775e9072865b086577c1b4f1/6fcb6/result-with-
post.png)

The blog post is there! We can click on it and read its awesome content. At
this point, we can either write more blog posts, add images, further style our
blog, etc…

But we want to share our content with the world ASAP, so let’s deploy the blog
on IPFS with Fleek.

## Deploying with Fleek

First, we need to create a GitHub repository and push all of our project’s
content to the repo. It will look like this:
<https://github.com/SamueleA/hugo-fleek>. Fleek will pull the repo’s content,
build it, and publish it.

Next, log in to your Fleek account and add a new site.

[ ![1 add site](../../static/6f10fe25639ab703c85ffc979e23c453/d9199/1-add-
site.png) ](../../static/6f10fe25639ab703c85ffc979e23c453/07a9c/1-add-
site.png)

Select the repo containing the Hugo blog.

[ ![2 select
repo](../../static/0daba5e8edc71cb1843b026d9ecbc91f/d9199/2-select-repo.png)
](../../static/0daba5e8edc71cb1843b026d9ecbc91f/062c8/2-select-repo.png)

Now we must enter the build settings. Luckily for us, Fleek auto-detects our
Hugo settings and fills the fields for us, so we don’t have anything to
change!

[ ![3 settings
submodule](../../static/33c2c7031c73aca9aedf45d347cd3c1a/c5bb3/3-settings-
submodule.png)
](../../static/33c2c7031c73aca9aedf45d347cd3c1a/c5bb3/3-settings-
submodule.png)

Next, we click `DEPLOY SITE` button and wait until the completion of the
deployment. The screen will look like this once it is done:

[ ![4 success
deploy](../../static/496f31115cfc8a92450857877f2f584d/d9199/4-success-
deploy.png) ](../../static/496f31115cfc8a92450857877f2f584d/a8a6f/4-success-
deploy.png)

And if we click on [wild-river-3030.on.fleek.co](https://wild-
river-3010.on.fleek.co/), we are greeted by our beautiful Hugo blog hosted on
IPFS!

Your turn! Now, it’s your turn to create an awesome Hugo blog and host it on
IPFS through Fleek.

Share the result with us on [twitter](https://twitter.com/FleekHQ). We’d love
to see what you come up with!

Published 16 Apr 2020

  * [Tutorial](../../tag/tutorial/)
  * [Resource](../../tag/resource/)

Fleek is all you need to build websites and apps on the new Open Web:
permissionless, trustless, censorship resistant, and free of centralized
gatekeepers. Welcome to the new internet.[](https://www.twitter.com/FleekHQ)

