[Go Back](../../)[Fleek.co](https://Fleek.co)

# HackFS: Showcasing Fleek Prize Winners

![](https://fleek-team-bucket.storage.fleek.co/HackFS2%20\(1\).jpg)

Thank you to Protocol Labs and ETH Global for hosting HackFS! The month of
July - August 2020 has been really exciting to watch developer teams build a
bunch of awesome projects in the IPFS and Filecoin Ecosystem.

The Fleek team was fortunate to be a Presenter Sponsor, giving an opening
talk, workshops, office hours, etc. to the developer teams in HackFS, and had
nearly 80 teams out of the 134 teams build on at least one or more Fleek
product (Fleek Hosting, Fleek Storage, or Fleek’s Space Daemon).

We wanted to take a moment and showcase some of the Fleek prize winners and
share some of our thoughts on why they were special. We won’t go over all the
prize winners in detail, but here are all the Fleek winners:

  * Best Use of **Fleek Space Daemon** : [Shop FS](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/shop-fs-recSnBFT0TY7XgYNK)
  * Best Use of **Fleek Hosting** : [BlockSig](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/blocksig-recT3kpIaPtPKNek2), [Pyr](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/pyr-rec9LKk3ZGMW6qrOa), [Web3API](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/web3api-recItC5qPwuQmLqug), [IPFS-FPS](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/ipfs-fps-rec1OcC5wSjdp1LEp), [Cadbury](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/cadbury-reckhMFHOxGqXC8DY), [WFIL](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/wfil-recCwbCnY2rnipjcR), [Parcel](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/parcel-recMzBP7HUVYDYQIR), [Public Annotation Network](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/public-annotation-network-recnKxnp9epAR1fOF), [Sailplane](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/sailplane-web-recoJM0CPadSrw9yj), [Pnlp.network](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/pnlp-i-e-pulp-recmjUDBoPH8faOCC)
  * Best Use of **Fleek Storage** : [BlockSig](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/blocksig-recT3kpIaPtPKNek2), [Azureus](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/azureus-recTkk0jGPXRrwg6Z), [Mobility Marketplace](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/mobility-marketplace-rectlFaxjBi0m2S5j), [WatchdogDAO](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/watchdog-dao-rec1ds7btRqO0ZhE3), [Browser Streaming](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/browser-streaming-recBbvY9FuBJYI99c), [Access Denied](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/access-denied-rec4tYQAw3m287S4o), [Dtok](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/dtok-recqD1ftybrCndTYv), [IPFS Deploy for Java](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/ipfs-deploy-for-java-recy6OKUfckknpvas), [Fractal](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/fractal-rec9Pwf9Wu59jLEI7), [Eat Out Coin](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/eat-out-coin-rec29E37C5glphmeI)

![](https://fleek-team-bucket.storage.fleek.co/fleekhackfswinners.jpeg)

## Showcase

#### Shop FS

The [Shop FS](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/shop-fs-recSnBFT0TY7XgYNK)
team created a web app for encrypted file storage and an array of options to
buy and sell decentralized content using the Fleek Space Daemon. Not only did
they show how IPFS and encryption tools can provide a fully private and peer-
to-peer storage solution for end users, they also provided a way for users to
list encrypted files on Ethereum for sale and created novel sharing mechanisms
for the buyer to gain access to the encrypted file once their purchase is
confirmed. All in a very private user experience. This confirms some of our
expectations that developers will build web2 equivalents (sorta like dropbox +
marketplace in this case) that bring the privacy and peer to peer features to
it.

**How was Shop FS made:**

“…with the introduction of Fleek’s Space Daemon which stores files in private
encrypted form in buckets & a Node-Red Monitoring Service that overlooks all
events happening on the contract through Graph and after verification of
signatures from both sellers & buyers we ensure the buyer has private access
to the file.”

#### BlockSig

The [BlockSig](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/blocksig-recT3kpIaPtPKNek2)
team built a fully private and encrypted notary service, like DocuSign, with
all the documents to be notarized getting uploaded fully encrypted via the
Space Daemon and Ethereum based tokens for signing authorization of the
encrypted IPFS stored documents before sharing the encrypted files directly
with the other users peer-to-peer. This is another great example of how the
Space Daemon can be used to build privacy first and peer-to-peer web 2
equivalents, in this case like DocuSign.

**How BlockSig was made:**

They actually used all three Fleek products together, “…Fleek for Hosting [our
web apps front end] & Storage, and the Space Daemon (which includes Textile
buckets) to store encrypted files”. And their explanation of interacting with
Ethereum for tracking notary, “Once all signatures proofs have propagated on
chain, the smart contract fires a “notarization request”. The email oracle now
generated a new token and sends to notary for signing.” shows the endless use
cases for building apps that utilize IPFS/Filecoin and Ethereum.

#### IPFS-FPS

The [IPFS-FPS](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/ipfs-fps-rec1OcC5wSjdp1LEp)
team created a fun and interactive first person shooter game combining web2
Unity tools with IPFS and Filecoin, where the mission of the game is to
collect all the Filecoins. All the app files are all hosted and referenced via
IPFS. The gaming web application is hosted by Fleek Hosting.

Since the creation of the Fleek Hosting product we’ve used it to host our own
sites and apps, and we love to see showcases of teams using it to build
complex, even web2 based applications, that can leverage IPFS hosting.

**How IPFS-FPS was made:**

“Unity: Install Unity to create and export your game for IPFS. Github: Upload
your game onto Github for continuous deployment. This will set up Fleek.
Fleek: Fleek gets content from Github and publishes it on IPFS. Any updates to
Github will automatically republish.”

### Conclusion

Thank you to all the developers and participants of HackFS, especially those
that leveraged the Fleek product suite. We had a ton of fun and helpful
feedback by working side by side with you all each day throughout the
hackathon. We loved seeing teams create alternatives to web2 equivalents, like
Dropbox and DocuSign, where users can control their own data and trust the
privacy while interacting with each other peer-to-peer using the Fleek Space
Daemon. And to see the uptick in the Fleek Hosting and Storage products during
the hackathon with nearly 80 teams building on them was amazing. The result
was a bunch of awesome IPFS, Filecoin, Textile, and Ethereum based DApps. The
cross-collaboration in the web3 ecosystem is unbelievable and this hackathon
shows that developers want to plug and play several web3 protocols for
different use cases. Congrats to all the prize winners! Look forward to seeing
you move forward in your projects at both
[Apollo](https://gitcoin.co/blog/apollo/) and the [Filecoin
Launchpad](https://consensys.net/blog/press-release/filecoin-launchpad-
accelerator-powered-by-
tachyon/?utm_medium=email&_hsmi=92848280&_hsenc=p2ANqtz-
_yPBeBqoeFLXlvXNJuDgEr73_DgeIo0-8FprDKMIDUdMK2TUFAi4L5dk8OROBzHA_2GJddl3qx6sYf_iArQcorulBLHQ&utm_content=92848280&utm_source=hs_email).

Happy hacking!

\- Fleek Team

  * [Sign up](https://app.fleek.co "Sign Up") to try Fleek
  * Join our [Community Chat](https://slack.fleek.co/ "Fleek's Slack")
  * Follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/FleekHQ "Fleek's Twitter")
  * Subscribe to our [Youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCBzlwYM0JjZpjDZ52-SLUmw "Fleek's Youtube Channel")
  * Check out our [Tech Docs](https://docs.fleek.co/ "Fleek Docs")
  * Contact us at support@fleek.co

Published 24 Aug 2020

  * [Hackathon](../../tag/hackathon/)

Fleek is all you need to build websites and apps on the new Open Web:
permissionless, trustless, censorship resistant, and free of centralized
gatekeepers. Welcome to the new internet.[](https://www.twitter.com/FleekHQ)

