[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# HealthClaim

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

HealthClaim: Scalable digital healthcare agent

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/ov_aron-150x150.jpg)

August 2019

Posted by

Aron van Ammers

CTO and Founding Partner

Before Outlier Ventures, Aron completed an MSc in Business Information
Technology and has over 15 years of experience in software development in the
roles of CTO, architect, designer, consultant, developer and systems engineer
in both start-up and enterprise environments. He has extensive knowledge and
hands-on experience with full stack software development, decentralised
systems and smart contracts....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/aron-van-ammers/)

# The scalable digital healthcare agent

## In partnership with Sovrin and Imperial College London

Posted by Aron van Ammers - August 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/ov_aron-150x150.jpg)

August 2019

Posted by

Aron van Ammers

CTO and Founding Partner

Before Outlier Ventures, Aron completed an MSc in Business Information
Technology and has over 15 years of experience in software development in the
roles of CTO, architect, designer, consultant, developer and systems engineer
in both start-up and enterprise environments. He has extensive knowledge and
hands-on experience with full stack software development, decentralised
systems and smart contracts....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/aron-van-ammers/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

The Sovrin Network is creating a global metasystem for identity. Decentralised
identity is an integral part of the Convergence Stack, with Sovrin as the
premier solution to enable it.

The verifiable credentials paradigm and decentralised identifiers (DIDs) are
core to Sovrin and the underlying HyperLedger Indy codebase. Verifiable
credentials and DIDs have gained significant traction in the decentralised
identity space, supported by many other initiatives including uPort on
Ethereum, Microsoft Sidetree, and Blockstack, and with standards being
established by the W3C and Decentralized Identity Foundation.

Being able to prove attributes about one’s identity with strong trust
guarantees, without disclosing those attributes themselves, while staying in
full control of the underlying data, is a powerful concept. Self-sovereign
identity on Sovrin allows individuals to present claims such as “my age is
over 18” or “I live in New York City” in a cryptographically trusted manner,
without disclosing respectively their exact date of birth or a full address,
or any other irrelevant, but sensitive, data.

What’s possibly even more exciting is that verifiable credentials can be used
for applications beyond what is commonly understood as “identity” into other
domains of personal data such as finance, education, and health.

As part of Outlier Ventures’ Research Programme with the Imperial Centre for
Cryptocurrency Research and Engineering, six students have created an
application of verifiable credentials beyond identity, in the healthcare
domain. Data privacy in healthcare has been a challenge ever since the
emergence of healthcare software. Unfortunately, ​data breaches in healthcare
systems are ever more common​ and the consequences can be devastating. From my
personal experience, having built SaaS healthcare solutions for a decade, my
view is that improving the security standards on the existing model isn’t the
answer. We need a different model.

Boris, Jedrzej, Irina, Isaac, Malina and Matej have done impressive work
creating a working product built on Hyperledger Indy which can be deployed on
the Sovrin network. It fully supports the core use case of patient on-boarding
and privacy-preserving storage and exchange of health data. An interesting
aspect of their solution is the balance between usability and accessibility on
the one hand, and security and data reliability on the other. Patients are in
control of their data, while their records are hosted at their doctor’s
facilities privately, using a clever way of access control based on using a
hash of the password. While this mechanism is not ready for production use,
Web 3.0 is in need of genuinely different models of information access and
security to be accessible to the majority of users, and this is one
interesting approach to further explore.

### Health Claim

Have you ever wondered “Who owns my medical information?”, ”Who controls it?”,
“Who can view it without my permission?”. As a patient, we want to have our
medical information available wherever we go for care but we also want to be
in control of our own data.

> “A blockchain-based approach would allow patients to become the owners of
> their data. It would allow the information to travel with them — to every
> new ED and hospital — both safely and securely. It could be updated as soon
> as new data is entered. And it could connect all of our medical information
> for the rest of their lives.” — Forbes [1].

The solution could lie with a blockchain for proofs of the credibility of
digitalised health records, which would establish ​trust​, a must in a system
with data as delicate as our own health information. The benefits of a
digitised health system like this would allow for easier and faster exchange
of health records, while also providing for the integrity and safety of the
data.

The market has a gap, which offers an immense opportunity. If we could create
such a system, we could roll it out into real health care service providers.
The main problem of trust in digital identities and records could be solved
via blockchain and its zero-knowledge proofs.

As a team of undergraduate students from Imperial College London, we have
paired up with researcher Dominik Harz and industrial sponsors Outlier
Ventures and Sovrin to create a solution we’ve called HealthClaim​.

### The UK National Health Service‘s attempts to digitise highlight the scale
of the opportunity

In the United Kingdom, the National Health Service (NHS) provides free health
care to every single person within the country. It is the largest employer in
the UK and one of the top 10 biggest employers in the world.

In the last decade, the NHS has gone through a series of digitisation
attempts. Despite their goals, they [did not manage to reach the
goal](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/2016/07/06/controversial-50-million-
nhs-database-scrapped-quietl y-on-same-d/​) of interconnecting all clinics and
hospitals into a centralised database where all the records would be pooled.

Of course, the problem is the massive ​scale.​ Interconnecting hundreds of
legacy systems in an industry where mistakes cost lives turn out to be a very
intractable problem. Perhaps, instead of attacking the problem from the inside
and untangling the myriad of legacy systems, we could try to cut straight
through the proverbial Gordian Knot.

HealthClaim’s approach is instead to create a digital agent for each NHS
instance (such as a clinic or a hospital), which can be a) easily set-up and
b) rolled out independently and asynchronously of each other.

![HealthClaim: Scalable digital healthcare agent Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/08/1_9vuetJjeLPu6P1b766uAqg.png)

### Piggybacking onto Hyperledger Indy’s framework

We worked with ​Sovrin’s​ Hyperledger Indy product, which provides a
decentralized infrastructure for managing identities in a secure way using a
distributed digital ledger. ​Hyperledger Indy​ store signatures of digital
health records on the blockchain, which prove the validity of health records
in real-time through its zero-knowledge proofs.

Our product is a Docker agent, which can be installed by any clinic. This
supplies the clinic with all of:

  * An encrypted local database of health records which can be read and written to
  * A website with a doctor and patient logins, where users can be registered and approved, and doctors can issue health records for their patients
  * Hyperledger stores digital proofs that verify each information of every health record
  * When a health record is sent to a new doctor by a patient, validity is cross-checked via zero-knowledge proofs and trust thus established

![HealthClaim: Scalable digital healthcare agent Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/08/1_W883k0UJCXCS4nqQbjTtqw.jpeg)

HealthClaim paves the way for an easy yet secure way of sharing information
between patients and doctors. An intuitive web interface allows patients to
securely manage their medical data and control who they chose to share their
data with. Neither doctor accounts nor third parties can access patient data
they have not been given explicit content by the patient to see.

The following is a feature breakdown:

### 1\. Secure registration — the right to privacy and security is a key part
of our system

  * Patient: In order to register as a patient, one needs to send a request to create a new account with a username and password to a specific doctor identified by a unique DID (decentralised identifier) number.
  * Doctor logs in. They receive a notification about the patient’s sign up a request and sign it.
  * The patient is verified by a doctor, their account has been created and is tied to a specific clinic.

### 2\. Allowing doctors or third parties to request specific medical
information

  * Third parties can request certain attributes of a health record like “age” or privacy-enhancing predicates such as “is this patient over 18”.
  * In order to receive the information, patients need to provide express consent to answer the exact query.

### 3\. Allowing doctors or third parties to see patient data that was shared
with them

  * Only the requested health record information is given to requestors, with HealthClaim verifying that its signature exists on the blockchain.

### 4\. Securely storing and delivering data to authorised parties

  * HealthClaim attempts a zero-knowledge proof to verify whether the information supplied has been previously signed by a doctor as valid and isn’t fake.

Coming back to the NHS’s attempts to digitise their operations, HealthClaim
could be a solution because each Docker agent is a self-sufficient organism
and different agents can be easily tied together via a central lookup table of
server addresses per clinic. The diagram below illustrates the abstracted
structure:

![HealthClaim: Scalable digital healthcare agent Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/08/1_9_mQATIQx7PNAs5g4-5wSw.jpeg)

### Insurance integration and government use-cases are the next steps

With HealthClaim, users would have all their health records digitised and
credibly signed on the blockchain, which means we have introduced ​trust​into
our digital system. The system now provides even more value via third-party
integrations.

Imagine having an accident and receiving a subsequent doctor’s report of it.
Normally, making an insurance claim would require you to bureaucratically give
your insurance company physical copies of the doctor’s report. Naturally,
there’s still the mistrust of forgery present. Furthermore, not only do you
have to provide a medical report of your accident-injured knee, but you also
give the insurance company a lot of unrelated general medical record data.

On HealthClaim, once one receives the doctor’s report, our 3rd party portal
allows verified agents to request specific aspects (claims) from the patient.
The patient only has to accept this request and the records are shared
digitally, immediately, and are verified. The requests can as granular as
necessary, where each piece of information can be requested independently.

But let’s push this idea even further. Now that we have data digitised and,
more importantly, verifiable, we can explore more ideas to use this data.
HealthClaim can enable use-cases ranging from government health statistics to
academic research, done with privacy in mind and user consents. Even more
interesting ideas come in the form of private companies paying HealthClaim
users in order to use their data.

Imagine Facebook paying us if we give it consent to use specific attributes of
our data.

![HealthClaim: Scalable digital healthcare agent Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/08/0_pOSBf_VTsDLo-zlJ.jpg)Imagine Facebook paying us if
we give it consent to use specific attributes of our data

### Resources

HealthClaim can be found on our GitHub page:
<https://github.com/OutlierVentures/healthclaim>

To install HealthClaim, run the Dockerfile. Then please follow the
User_Guide.pdf document, which details the user flows.

_This article is for information purposes only and does not constitute
investment advice. This article does not amount to an invitation or inducement
to buy or sell an investment nor does it solicit any such offer or invitation
in any jurisdiction._

_In all cases, readers should conduct their own investigation and analysis of
the data in the article. All statements of opinion and/or belief contained in
this article and all views expressed and all projections, forecasts or
statements relating to expectations regarding future events represent Outlier
Ventures Operation Limited own assessment and interpretation of information
available as at the date of this article._

___No responsibility or liability is accepted by Outlier Ventures Operations
Limited or Sapia Partners LLP for reliance on the contents of this article._

_Outlier Ventures is an Appointed Representative of Sapia Partners LLP, a firm
authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)._

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

