[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/9075534d4c08&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Crypto
Punks](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*RuBSr8PcbcSSimYWrpQsHA.png)](https://medium.com/crypto-
punks?source=post_page-----9075534d4c08--------------------------------)

Published in

[Crypto Punks

](https://medium.com/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
9075534d4c08--------------------------------)

[![Sam
Aiken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/0*KLR9G_nzD3rK1p1w.jpg)](/@SamAI_Software?source=post_page
-----9075534d4c08--------------------------------)

[Sam Aiken](/@SamAI_Software?source=post_page-----
9075534d4c08--------------------------------)

Follow

Dec 9, 2019

·

19 min read

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*RXuqusaHBz5OluPWO_M9TA.jpeg)

# Hong Kong digital warriors fight for freedom with memes, hashtags and hidden
messages

## XinnieThePooh, MeiForHK, FreeKingKong, D7777, Chinazi, QuitTikTok,
BoycottMulan, BoycottBlizzard, BandinChina, CommunistNBA — what does all that
mean?

 _Disclosure: many protests-related memes and artworks are shared anonymously,
so if you know a particular source, please send a link in the comments or
via_[ _twitter_](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software) _. Due to the sensitive
nature of this article, it’s distributed without any paywall, sponsored
content, or referral links, so consider_[ ** _donating some
crypto_**](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-activism#donate)
_if you want to see more articles about Hong Kong and other pro-democracy
movements across the world. If you’re an activist, then check out an open
source project_[ ** _decentralized-activism_**](https://github.com/SamAI-
Software/decentralized-activism) _. I also own BTC, ETH, BCH, and other
coins._

> China is like that one person on Twitter that can’t take any criticism and
> just blocks everyone.
>
> ©[PewDiePie](https://youtu.be/OhWZavn2OvM?t=740)
> ([banned](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/dkad9t/the_number_1_youtuber_pewdiepie_with_over_100/)
> in China after that)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*UU9qb-XUnRzCPuIjQ92bcw.jpeg)

# Intro

We’re witnessing the biggest global people’s uprising the world has ever seen.
We are one huge [decentralized community](https://github.com/SamAI-
Software/decentralized-activism) connected together though the internet. The
global solidarity is on an unprecedented level: from Hong Kong to
[Catalonia](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qQM2lnloBwU),
[Iran](https://twitter.com/ShayKhatiri/status/1195860574955036672),
[Russia](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=COKgBe5Pw3Q),
[Indonesia](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=78u9uBJBqIw&list=PLzGHKb8i9vTxciIoRUx04zx56EWPUZa0T),
[Ecuador](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019_Ecuadorian_protests),
[Kashmir](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rSE83h59reg),
[Lebanon](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P9kpvqpULcE),
[Haiti](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PwfGzXh1MOQ),
[Bolivia](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hXfmdPEQD7A),
[Chile](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O70HoaGvgF0), and many other places
across the world. From pro-democracy and pro-independence movements, to
environmental and animal rights activism. People across the world are
increasingly expressing their discontent with government’s policies, and
activists study each others experience in order to implement the best
techniques in their movements.

Previously we’ve discussed how Hong Kong activists [protect their
identities](/crypto-punks/digital-resistance-security-privacy-tips-from-hong-
kong-protesters-37ff9ef73129) in the digital space, which allows them to
participate in the pro-democracy movement with minimum risks to their lives.

[

## Digital resistance: security & privacy tips from Hong Kong protesters

### Full digital gear: Telegram, Protonmail, AirDrop, FireChat, Bridgefy,
PrivateBin, Fingertrapp, What3Words, Tor, VPN…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/digital-resistance-security-privacy-tips-from-hong-kong-
protesters-37ff9ef73129)

We’ve also discussed how HK activists use LIHKG, Reddit, Pincong, and GitHub
to [make collective decisions](/crypto-punks/decentralized-governance-inside-
hong-kongs-open-source-revolution-lihkg-reddit-pincong-519ab2861793) in a very
decentralized manner, which is similar to how the crypto community operates
for more than a decade.

[

## Decentralized governance: inside Hong Kong’s open source revolution (LIHKG,
Reddit, Pincong…

### Dear passengers, welcome to Hong Kong, Cypherpunk Harbour. Please wipe out
your chat logs, photos, browsing history…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/decentralized-governance-inside-hong-kongs-open-source-
revolution-lihkg-reddit-pincong-519ab2861793)

Now let’s look closer at some tactics employed by Hong Kong activists to fight
for the freedom in a digital space because these strategies can be used in any
other social movement and in a crypto space. In 4 different sections of this
article we will analyze memes & hashtags, hidden messages, mascots and many
other tactics, so keep on reading.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*aJkDVyOCON3N8plnIUIeyA.jpeg)

# Breaking 50 cent army domination

## Home-raised army of digital warriors

In June, when huge HK protests broke out, the digital space was heavily
dominated by the state-sponsored 50 cent army (Chinese bots, Wumao, 0.5) that
vigorously attacked any commentators of HK events, often sending death
threats. The CCP (Chinese Communist Party) also hired [digital
mercenaries](/dfrlab/twitters-hong-kong-archives-chinese-commercial-bots-at-
work-f4c7ae8eea64) to [tweet about Hong
Kong](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/09/18/world/asia/hk-
twitter.html), and mobilized young Chinese nationalists (e.g.
[飯圈女孩](/一只鹿ㄦ/飯圈女孩出征-擬人化的國家-卡通般的政治-ed6f8417b850)), but then retracted them
because some of them got “anti-brainwashed” after being exposed to the
uncensored information on western social media.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*vL5I4N6etvuO52IdSn2jEg.jpeg)

by [badiucao](https://twitter.com/badiucao)

Hongkongers understood that they had to raise their own army of digital
freedom fighters, so they started incentivizing friends to sign up for
different social media platforms [without exposing their identities](/crypto-
punks/digital-resistance-security-privacy-tips-from-hong-kong-
protesters-37ff9ef73129).

In August, [Twitter and Facebook blocked more than 200,000 Chinese
bots](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2019/aug/19/twitter-china-hong-
kong-accounts), which seriously damaged the 50 cent army. Through the summer
of 2019 tens of thousands of Hongkongers signed up to social media platforms
for the sole purpose of fighting with the CCP propaganda. In order to connect
all freedom fighters together they used hashtags like
[#FollowBackHK](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23FollowBackHK)
[#FollowBackHongKong](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23FollowBackHongKong).

## Global digital draft

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/600/1*Dsz6ErIkC-7JN3FDWtiTBA.jpeg)

[reddit.com/r/HongKong](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/dcsxln/1_the_world_is_watching/)

Once HK protests started trending, many netizens from across the world joined
Hongkongers’ fight for freedom in solidarity. The biggest digital draft
occurred in the first week of October 2019 when the following events unfolded:

  *  **South Park** released “[Band in China](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Band_in_China)” episode, mocking Chinese state censorship imposed on domestic and international companies. After this episode, the CCP banned the series entirely in the country. A high-profile musician **Zedd** has also been [banned](https://twitter.com/Zedd/status/1182376966495838208) from China for simply liking a South Park’s tweet with that episode. **PewDiePie** has also joined the trend and [covered](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OhWZavn2OvM) HK-related memes, which obviously got him [banned](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/dkad9t/the_number_1_youtuber_pewdiepie_with_over_100/) in China.
  * The **NBA** pressured Daryl Morey to delete his [tweet that supports HK protests](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daryl_Morey#Twitter_comments_on_Hong_Kong). However, after a serious backlash from the US audience, an NBA commissioner Adam Silver defended the league’s response to the controversy, supporting Morey’s right to freedom of expression.
  *  **Blizzard** heavily [punished](https://www.reddit.com/r/hearthstone/comments/devia0/blizzard_ruling_on_hk_interview_blitzchung/) a HK-based Hearthstone player Blitzchung for expressing support for the Hong Kong pro-democracy movement during his post-match [interview](https://twitter.com/InvenGlobal/status/1180954142396710912). Both casters interviewing him were fired.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2560/1*DbDSNiKValincxXTN2MFfg.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1278/1*qSDtaPz4ziuQOVQNPVbO-g.jpeg)

left image: by [RebelPepper](https://twitter.com/RebelPepperWang)

To add even more oil, [many
companies](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/dge9ib/i_posted_lists_of_china_bootlickers_atrocities_in/)
including **Apple** , **Google** , **Disney** , **Vans** , and **Nike** bowed
down to the CCP, [selling democratic
values](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Overseas_censorship_of_Chinese_issues)
for an access to China’s market. All these events sparked a huge public
outrage, so millions of sport fans and gamers jumped on a HK pro-democracy
train. That expanded an army of freedom fighters beyond what the CCP could
possibly withstand.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1600/1*Z_VJCNB09zk6gu2L1ez2sg.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1280/1*74LhvIm7bRmtF57g6ikhuA.jpeg)

# Memes and hashtags

Let’s look at the evolution of hashtags used by HK activists since the
beginning of the protests. Ideally, a movement should have one catchy hashtag
for a successful campaign. The best example is #MeToo because it’s short, easy
to remember, and implies a strong emotional connection among activists.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*ni0n0XwaaMZaajQ7PhcTBQ.jpeg)

Hong Kong protesters started with
[#antiELAB](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23antiELAB) hashtag which stands for
the Anti-Extradition Law Amendment Bill (ELAB). However, it was not catchy and
meant nothing for an international crowd, so many other hashtags were used to
increase exposure such as
[#HongKong](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23HongKong)
[#HongKongProtests](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23HongKongProtests)
[#HKProtests](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23hkprotests)
[#FreeHongKong](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23FreeHongKong)
[#反送中](https://twitter.com/hashtag/%E5%8F%8D%E9%80%81%E4%B8%AD)
[#NoExtraditionToChina](https://twitter.com/hashtag/NoExtraditionToChina)
[#LiberateHongKong](https://twitter.com/hashtag/LiberateHongKong?src=hashtag_click)
[#RevolutionOfOurTimes](https://twitter.com/hashtag/RevolutionOfOurTimes?src=hashtag_click)
[#FightForFreedom](https://twitter.com/hashtag/FightForFreedom?src=hashtag_click)
[#DemocracyForHK](https://twitter.com/hashtag/DemocracyForHK?src=hashtag_click)
[#HKResist](https://twitter.com/hashtag/HKResist)
[#SaveHK](https://twitter.com/hashtag/savehk).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*4NtvjitISh0ZbbFC__WWOA.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1920/1*1E_9-NyEUlfwBOLn0A0cIA.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1500/1*6xHxkuFcsii5ScgHcusUOQ.jpeg)

After police brutality escalated, activists used hashtags
[#HongKongPolice](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23HongKongPolice)
[#HongKongPoliceBrutality](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23HongKongPoliceBrutality)
[#HKPoliceBrutality](https://twitter.com/hashtag/hkpolicebrutality?src=hashtag_click)
[#HKPoliceState](https://twitter.com/hashtag/HKPoliceState?src=hashtag_click)
[#HKPoliceTerrorism](https://twitter.com/hashtag/HKPoliceTerrorism?src=hashtag_click)
to raise awareness about HK police actions to suppress the movement.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*TMpX-nV0cVOnLOg5Apv8TQ.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2480/1*7BTBqo0l10jGxr-9b4fepQ.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*wOcGraNsRKeItCnaytXWZg.jpeg)

People around the world started showing their support for HK pro-democracy
movement using hashtags
[#StandWithHongKong](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23StandWithHongKong)
[#StandWithHK](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23StandWithHK)
[#Shout4HK](https://twitter.com/hashtag/Shout4HK).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*6u09AcIWf-CkWhpiWeX90g.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2048/1*HepR4UxjfvwWgTeMd3qXcw.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1200/1*_PjualeTfcqBiEKTFg2XWw.jpeg)

left image: by [szetomimi](https://www.instagram.com/szetomimi/), center
image: by [RebelPepper](https://twitter.com/RebelPepperWang)

After a first aider was shot in her eye with a beanbag round, activists
started using hashtags [#Eye4HK](https://twitter.com/hashtag/Eye4HK)
[#EyeforHK](https://twitter.com/hashtag/EyeforHK).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*yrdB5SfuNcxiBcINLJdYUQ.jpeg)

Hongkongers also started an Eye4HK campaign that asked people to make a photo
with the right eye covered in solidarity with all protesters that [lost their
eyes](https://twitter.com/Eye4HK/status/1182143930290196482).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*A8ilvRHBa8y5MKZkbfdJvQ.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*IHqqD2yyfvJStq5cbPu4xQ.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1238/1*BWvzZ1yCpSEl2CE1PHSnMA.jpeg)

After
[accusations](https://twitter.com/bryanchung510/status/1183955234625904640) of
[sexual
abuses](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/dtw0he/16_year_old_gangraped_by_police_forced_to_have_an/)
by HK police and a series of [suspicious suicide
cases](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/di04on/one_of_the_latest_video_of_chan_yin_lam_the/)
Hongkongers used hashtags [#MeToo](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23MeToo)
[#ProtestToo](https://twitter.com/hashtag/ProtestToo?src=hashtag_click)
[#SOSHK](https://twitter.com/hashtag/SOSHK)
[#HKLastwords](https://twitter.com/hashtag/HKLastwords) and
[#SanUkLing](https://twitter.com/hashtag/SanUkLing?src=hashtag_click), which
stands for a [HK detention
center](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/San_Uk_Ling_Holding_Centre) located
close to the border with mainland China known as a “terror cell” (恐怖囚室).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/810/1*2kzLf0--5uWzYAQKgG72Sw.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*s_1Ehbm7Pj5yYQdiYVmppQ.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*0R2wUuQcXjWRxAy3ZNtNSw.jpeg)

After three consecutive months of protests the Chief Executive of Hong Kong
finally announced that she would [propose
withdrawing](https://twitter.com/BaldingsWorld/status/1169268571194544133) of
the controversial extradition bill in October when the legislature reconvenes,
but [none of other demands were
met](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cziwwl/if_youve_come_to_congratulate_us_dont_our/),
so activists flooded social media with memes and hashtags
[#5DemandsNot1Less](https://twitter.com/hashtag/5DemandsNot1Less)
[#5DemandsNotOneLess](https://twitter.com/hashtag/5DemandsNotOneLess).

[#GloryToHongKong](https://twitter.com/hashtag/GloryToHongKong?src=hashtag_click)
hashtag stands for a new unofficial [anthem of Hong
Kong](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glory_to_Hong_Kong) adopted by protesters
to boost morale and unite people.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2560/1*kVvJTTi_oNGuMtDfQaIjmw.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1920/1*M0XxR4WoYOyD8JUr7_oV0w.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*I2qOP-weorer7VPlm8_93Q.jpeg)

70th anniversary of the People’s Republic of China on October 1 was celebrated
by pro-democracy activists with hashtags
[#GoodMourningCCP](https://twitter.com/hashtag/GoodMourningCCP?src=hashtag_click)
[#NotMyNationalDay](https://twitter.com/hashtag/NotMyNationalDay?src=hashtag_click)
[#70YearsOfShame](https://twitter.com/search?q=%2370YearsOfShame). That day
the HK police
[shoot](https://twitter.com/anti_elab/status/1178965849404608514) a teenage
protester in the chest with a live round. _Side note: the boy survived._

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*Eg5qIrhPEJtXrVd4YjrmGA.jpeg)![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*T_8jF0KCVcKpwnVbLQox0w.jpeg)

[#AntiMaskLaw](https://twitter.com/hashtag/AntiMaskLaw?src=hashtag_click) and
[#Mask4HK](https://twitter.com/hashtag/Mask4HK) hashtags were used to raise
awareness of intentional crowd about an emergency law that banned masks during
public assemblies.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1360/1*Drrnt1blDWrcybHSSFRYhw.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1778/1*J-mgk3TMu0q-MUPg-juzTA.jpeg)

The Hong Kong — Catalonia [solidarity
assemblies](https://twitter.com/heybrianwong/status/1187360452843470850) were
organized in both HK and Barcelona to strengthen the bond between two people’s
movements that share certain similarities and both face an enormous amount of
police brutality. Activists used hashtags such as
[#StandWithCatalonia](https://twitter.com/hashtag/StandWithCatalonia)
[#StandUpForCatalonia](https://twitter.com/hashtag/StandUpForCatalonia)
[#Catalunya](https://twitter.com/hashtag/Catalunya)
[#SpainIsAFascistState](https://twitter.com/hashtag/SpainIsAFascistState)
[#ThisIsTheRealSpain](https://twitter.com/hashtag/ThisIsTheRealSpain)
[#SpainTorturesAgain](https://twitter.com/hashtag/SpainTorturesAgain)
[#Tsunamidemocratic](https://twitter.com/hashtag/Tsunamidemocratic) together
with [#StandWithHongKong](https://twitter.com/hashtag/StandWithHongKong) and
[#BeWaterMyFriends](https://twitter.com/hashtag/BeWaterMyFriends).

There were certain [disagreements](https://lihkg.com/thread/1667946/page/1)
whether HKers should associate themselves with the Catalonia’s pro-
independence movement. Some people thought that a solidarity assembly would be
used by the CCP for “separatists” propaganda, and showing solidarity could
also alienate some western powers, which don’t want to see any people’s
uprising against the ruling class in their own countries. Others pointed out
that the HK pro-democracy movement received a lot of support from the
international community (journalists, politicians, activists, netizens,
Catalans), so HKers should at least [show
solidarity](https://lausan.hk/2019/can-our-global-city-offer-international-
solidarity/) for other people who face oppression and [police
brutality](https://catalanrepression.github.io/).

Interestingly, Catalonia’s activists learnt a lot from HK protests, so the
latest Catalonia’s uprising is much more decentralized than the one in 2017,
which was mostly controlled by politicians. _Side note: to follow English-
language news about the Catalonia’s independence movement you can subscribe
to_[ ** _r/catalonia_**](https://www.reddit.com/r/catalonia) _._

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1920/1*XRwm__h5__raTgnrUnqJ6A.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2160/1*MEWb4qI1ulqp4SUnqPfuGQ.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1120/1*pHnM9AzI3ElcpOH_LHuyUA.jpeg)

After HK police
[attacked](https://twitter.com/eyepressnews/status/1194224682993516545) and
besieged Hong Kong universities (CUHK and then PolyU), turning campuses into a
[warzone](https://twitter.com/SunnyCheungCKY/status/1194267786710671360),
activists started using hashtags
[#CUHKMassacre](https://twitter.com/hashtag/CUHKMassacre)
[#CUHK](https://twitter.com/hashtag/cuhk)
[#PolyU](https://twitter.com/hashtag/PolyU)
[#PolyUMassacre](https://twitter.com/hashtag/PolyUMassacre).

## From silence to an avalanche of boycotts

For years international companies were selling democratic values for an access
to China’s market without any backlash from the West, but things changed
rapidly when many Chinese influencers started showing their support for HK
police. One of the supporters was a Chinese-American actress [Liu
Yifei](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mulan_\(2020_film\)#Controversy), who
played the lead as Mulan in Disney’s newest film. Her actions sparked an
international outrage and hashtags like
[#BoycottMulan](https://twitter.com/hashtag/BoycottMulan) and
[#BoycottDisney](https://twitter.com/hashtag/BoycottDisney) started trending,
which was an unprecedented backlash for supporting the CCP at that time.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1500/1*BAV32bZVLoDiiqb8VvFBzg.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2248/1*d_DepVlLC4UwBJOulVqEiw.jpeg)

Disney moved further and
[banned](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/dfthv5/disney_officially_blocked_winnie_the_pooh_in_hong/)
Winnie-the-Pooh from a Hong Kong website, and an American cable channel ESPN
(owned by Disney) [forbade](https://deadspin.com/internal-memo-espn-forbids-
discussion-of-chinese-polit-1838881032) any mention of Chinese politics when
discussing Daryl Morey’s pro-HK tweet. ESPN also
[acknowledged](https://twitter.com/thejcoop/status/1182108438110887936)
China’s claims not only to Taiwan, but also to South China Sea live on
SportsCenter using “Nine-Dash Line” on a graphic.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*czyKckFd_clX6v90lXhL-Q.jpeg)

[reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/MapPorn/comments/dfrcp1/espn_acknowledges_chinas_claims_to_south_china/)
discussion, original
[video](https://twitter.com/thejcoop/status/1182108438110887936)

It’s worth mentioning that even before recent HK protests, Disney has been
bowing down to Chinese censors, e.g. in 2016 Marvel (owned by Disney)
[censored](https://www.nbcnews.com/news/asian-america/tibet-supporters-
protest-marvel-s-dr-strange-over-changed-character-n677706) Tibetan monk from
“Doctor Strange” film and turned him into a white woman, because by the
movie’s screenwriter: “if you acknowledge that Tibet is a place and that he’s
Tibetan, you risk alienating one billion people who think that that’s
bullshit”.

A popular HK-based English language newspaper South China Morning Post (SCMP)
was [acquired by Alibaba
Group](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_China_Morning_Post#Purchase_by_Alibaba)
in 2016 and started carefully pushing [pro-Beijing
narrative](https://twitter.com/KongTsungGan/status/1168052677311229953), which
led to hashtags like
[#BoycottSCMP](https://twitter.com/hashtag/boycottSCMP?src=hashtag_click).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1800/1*Q8OLBePwXy_0M-THZTgfbw.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1504/1*MjfwWoOMdMF1s1sM8rr0Sw.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*pUcOGYVXdH8OxO_wBQmfIg.jpeg)

left image: by [Ben Garrison](https://twitter.com/GrrrGraphics), center image:
by [PhenomComic](https://twitter.com/PhenomComic)

After the NBA pressured Daryl Morey to delete his [tweet that supported HK
protests](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daryl_Morey#Twitter_comments_on_Hong_Kong)
western social media platforms exploded with hundreds of memes and hashtags
like [#BoycottNBA](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23BoycottNBA)
[#NBAChina](https://twitter.com/hashtag/NBAChina)
[#CommunistNBA](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23CommunistNBA)
[#NeverBendoverAgain](https://twitter.com/hashtag/NeverBendoverAgain).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2058/1*TWGNkJXqaCy80_IYJ1e0HA.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2024/1*XT9HPfh3MxTjntMHuex8jg.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2484/1*7m8ekS3xp5rAO-pmz9FPBQ.jpeg)

left image: by [badiucao](https://twitter.com/badiucao)

Tensions
[escalated](https://twitter.com/bennyjohnson/status/1184468286416789504)
further after the NBA super star LeBron James
[criticized](https://www.hongkongfp.com/2019/10/15/us-basketball-star-lebron-
james-says-nba-exec-misinformed-controversial-hong-kong-tweet) Morey’s support
for HK pro-democracy movement, which led to even more
[backlash](https://twitter.com/KingJames/status/1183934569411530752), memes,
and hashtags like
[#LeBronJames](https://twitter.com/hashtag/LeBronJames?src=hashtag_click)
[#LeBronShames](https://twitter.com/hashtag/LeBronShames)
[#BoycottLebron](https://twitter.com/hashtag/boycottlebron?src=hashtag_click)
[#FuckOffJames](https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuckoffjames).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*7xoilw6x1VrqrtKUVZh6gQ.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1414/1*RJOCY-Wtg3ZohDBVrmDBkQ.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*75Revly62elcE9ayqDg4Fw.jpeg)

Interestingly, Hongkongers quickly responded with a rally in support of Morey
with hashtags [#StandWithMorey](https://twitter.com/hashtag/StandWithMorey)
[#ThankYouMorey](https://twitter.com/hashtag/thankyoumorey).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1200/1*PELJsy479f9MJ_IHUG6kDg.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2118/1*LWK2szlURd6GuM2nzFHnlA.jpeg)

However, the biggest
[storm](https://twitter.com/Grummz/status/1181736075775004672) started after
Blizzard
[punished](https://www.reddit.com/r/hearthstone/comments/devia0/blizzard_ruling_on_hk_interview_blitzchung/)
a Hearthstone player for showing support for the Hong Kong pro-democracy
movement during his post-match
[interview](https://twitter.com/InvenGlobal/status/1180954142396710912).
Suddenly, millions of gamers across the world joined the HK fight for freedom
with memes, review-bombings, boycotts, [mass GDPR
requests](https://www.reddit.com/r/hearthstone/comments/df0zx5/upset_about_blizzards_hk_ruling_heres_what_to_do/),
and hashtags
[#BoycottBlizzard](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23BoycottBlizzard)
[#BlizzardBoycott](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23BlizzardBoycott)
[#Chizzard](https://twitter.com/hashtag/chizzard). Activists also created
subreddits [r/FuckBlizzard](https://www.reddit.com/r/FuckBlizzard/) and
[r/ProtestBlizzcon](https://www.reddit.com/r/ProtestBlizzcon/) to share latest
news and discuss different strategies. A non-profit activist group Fight for
the Future created a website
[GamersForFreedom](https://www.gamersforfreedom.com/) that listed “more
ethical alternatives” to popular Blizzard games, and called people to join
[Gamers for
Freedom](https://www.fightforthefuture.org/news/2019-10-11-internet-freedom-
activists-call-for-umbrella/) protest [during
BlizzCon](https://twitter.com/FreedomHKG/status/1190350006286528522).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*W3gGLIrmp0ejo3_gTD_eUA.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*gjwt6mT05t6ggLI0sZISLw.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*803-pDq_6fidm__JR_NrEg.jpeg)

center image: by [Yuumei](https://www.reddit.com/user/Yuumei), right image: by
[zephronica](https://www.reddit.com/user/zephronica)
([Twitter](https://twitter.com/meisupportsHK))

Additionally, gamers tried to get Blizzard’s most popular game Overwatch to be
banned in China by using its Chinese character Mei as a mascot of the Hong
Kong resistance with hashtags
[#MeiWithHongKong](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23MeiWithHongKong)
[#MeiSupportsHongKong](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23MeiSupportsHongKong)
[#MeiForHK](https://twitter.com/hashtag/MeiForHK)
[#MeiForHongKong](https://twitter.com/hashtag/MeiForHongKong). People also
[fundraised](https://www.reddit.com/r/ProtestBlizzcon/comments/dimxua/thank_you_everyone_for_sending_hk_mei_to_blizzcon/)
money to send more HK Mei cosplayers to BlizzCon to join Gamers for Freedom
protest and activists
[organized](https://twitter.com/fightfortheftr/status/1189323603768233987) a
massive call on Blizzard’s sponsors to pull out using hashtags
[#ProtestBlizzcon](https://twitter.com/hashtag/ProtestBlizzcon)
[#BoycottBlizzcon](https://twitter.com/hashtag/BoycottBlizzcon)
[#GamersForFreedom](https://twitter.com/hashtag/GamersForFreedom).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/720/1*uddFjpKv18M2nSA-Rw7EAQ.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1334/1*6WjpkqVFetgWwkngWl3TCQ.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1216/1*mMEdgbNzYdFt54F-7WGcYQ.jpeg)

The pressure accumulated to the point that Blizzard made it [extremely
hard](https://www.reddit.com/r/FuckBlizzard/comments/dikqe9/blizzard_helping/)
to delete an account, also an Overwatch launch event at NintendoNYC was
[cancelled](https://twitter.com/NintendoNYC/status/1183940424467173378) by
Blizzard, and [Mitsubishi pulled
sponsorships](https://www.theverge.com/2019/10/29/20939236/blizzard-china-
hong-kong-protests-mitsubishi-hearthstone-ban-sponsorship-pulled) of Blizzard
e-sports events.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2560/1*vtu2j6PpSvXjrPgJfz-FHQ.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2560/1*HGkPzELoHQ7L5uF3PEuZnA.jpeg)

[#QuitTikTok](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23quittiktok) hashtag was used to
raise awareness of the public that a popular app TikTok is owned by Chinese
tech conglomerate Bytedance that actively
[censors](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Overseas_censorship_of_Chinese_issues#Notable_cases)
any content about Hong Kong protests or critical towards the CCP, e.g. the
Chinese persecution of ethnic minorities or the Tiananmen Square massacre.

An interesting incident happened in November 2019, when TikTok suspended an
account of a user who embedded a message about China’s concentration camps and
abuse of the Uyghurs into a “makeup tutorial” which got viral. After the huge
backlash, TikTok [apologized](https://news.yahoo.com/feroza-aziz-uyghur-
muslims-china-123108673.html) and restored an account of an activist.

Some activists also called for a boycott of other apps and high-tech products
from China with hashtags like
[#BoycottTencent](https://twitter.com/hashtag/BoycottTencent)
[#BoycottHuawei](https://twitter.com/hashtag/boycotthuawei)
[#BoycottQQ](https://twitter.com/hashtag/BoycottQQ)
[#BoycottBaidu](https://twitter.com/hashtag/BoycottBaidu)
[#BoycottWechat](https://twitter.com/hashtag/BoycottWechat).

# World’s biggest crying baby

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2048/1*hClSGsu5H7zluWCQxOf50A.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*HBdd9Xaxn1-C2waZ8WkYOg.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2048/1*sXaYALDjXg1bd63-05D5PQ.jpeg)

The CCP is famous for its sensitivity to any criticism, so the amount of memes
that target China, the CCP, and personally Xi Jinping increased dramatically.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*dC11HOTvKq3KqHekD561Ag.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*j2eXtmm01c3Gi_jnofDntQ.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*XoMaNsRSd-Ct_ro0-T4sBQ.jpeg)

As usually, activists use Winnie-the-Pooh, who is banned in China, to refer to
Xi Jinping with hashtags such as
[#XinnieThePooh](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23XinnieThePooh).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*0jMnPSln07B3gKN8w-KxCw.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2484/1*tFdyDiZgDHRTlbpuctww6w.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1500/1*etvj5zQhjC9H6kLehdtRog.jpeg)

One of the most creative and well-adopted hashtags among HK youngsters became
[#Chinazi](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23Chinazi) (or
[#antiChinazi](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23antiChinazi)), which is a
combination of China and Nazi. This hashtag is very powerful, because it’s
short, easy-to-remember, and self-explanatory, but the comparison to Nazi is a
bit too radical, so the hashtag didn’t get much adoption outside of Hong Kong
yet.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2048/1*dZWIh3xQ4FbvS6f_m6EdKA.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1360/1*tS_ks3weuh9Lbv7liyI5yw.jpeg)

images by [RebelPepper](https://twitter.com/RebelPepperWang)

After recent events many people realized the threat of the CCP to democracy
and human rights around the globe, so people started calling to boycott China
with hashtags
[#BoycottChina](https://twitter.com/hashtag/boycottchina?src=hashtag_click)
[#ResistBeijing](https://twitter.com/hashtag/resistbeijing?src=hashtag_click)
[#AntiCCP](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23AntiCCP&src=hashtag_click).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*JpMVnGT7cEVo3WcEuX0oAg.jpeg)

There is even a dedicated subreddit
[r/BoycottChina](https://www.reddit.com/r/BoycottChina/) where people actively
discuss how to avoid any Chinese products and services, because they don’t
want to [support the communist regime with their
money](https://www.reddit.com/r/BoycottChina/comments/dhndp0/question_is_it_ok_to_support_oneplus_ive_been/).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1600/1*B4DMsF7EurNwvIh6eQV3JQ.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1430/1*Ymtmf1w9x2gxIA-4ULNfhQ.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2136/1*hGu9yh9h18KS3SBaSVtgPg.jpeg)

left image by Pablo Stanley, center image by
[RebelPepper](https://twitter.com/RebelPepperWang)

Activists also called for a boycott of upcoming Olympic games in Beijing with
hashtags [#BoycottBeijing2022](https://twitter.com/hashtag/BoycottBeijing2022)
[#Chinazi2022](https://twitter.com/hashtag/chinazi2022) and stop
[#Beijing2022](https://twitter.com/hashtag/beijing2022).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*5OUXjLZdg7FXIVx04-5wMg.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*ygPmkeGPQr62pWa6e3CMKw.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*yKRRYI_Ku0_4cKDMYxGgjQ.jpeg)

left and right images by [badiucao](https://twitter.com/badiucao)

And, of course, the “Be Water” philosophy inspired by Bruce Lee was not only
used by HK protesters, but was also utilized by
[Catalans](https://twitter.com/tsunami_dem/status/1183753972609355781) and
other activists across the world with hashtags
[#BeWater](https://twitter.com/hashtag/BeWater)
[#BeWaterMyFriend](https://twitter.com/hashtag/BeWaterMyFriend).

# Hidden messages

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*BbHwgMl0lmH52JSqIbrSIw.jpeg)

For decades mainland Chinese were using hidden messages to circumvent the
censorship and talk about politically sensitive topics, so Hongkongers
[adopted](https://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-
way/2016/03/02/468876594/chinese-newspaper-editor-fired-over-hidden-headline-
message) the same tactics due to growing risks of repercussions for speaking
out.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1200/1*PdiuTgV0PNJpz-nrqprZBQ.jpeg)

Full-page ads in two HK newspapers with hidden messages

For example, the ad by a HK tycoon Li Ka-shing condemns violence, but there is
a [hidden message](https://www.npr.org/2019/08/22/753394754/did-a-hong-kong-
tycoon-hide-a-protest-message-in-his-innocuous-newspaper-ads): “The cause and
the result depend upon China. Let Hong Kong rule itself”. And there is a
hidden date 4.6.89 which refers to the [Tiananmen Square
massacre](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tiananmen_Square_protests_of_1989) on
June 4, 1989.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*Wxhi5dP3R6zInO7zsRMt4w.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1838/1*-LVlo5NMwWJFehs26EhCkw.jpeg)

left photo: [Zedd](https://twitter.com/Zedd/status/1186014612514201601)

Interestingly, people from “free countries” started adopting these hidden
messages due to potential financial repercussions for engaging with a China-
related content. For example, people started using non-political hashtags such
as [#FreeKingKong](https://twitter.com/hashtag/FreeKingKong)
[#LoveKingKong](https://twitter.com/hashtag/LoveKingKong)
[#SaveKingKong](https://twitter.com/hashtag/savekingkong) or wearing Winnie-
the-Pooh t-shirts like a high-profile musician Zedd
[did](https://twitter.com/Zedd/status/1186014612514201601) after being
[banned](https://twitter.com/Zedd/status/1182376966495838208) from China for
liking a South Park’s tweet with an episode about Chinese censorship overseas.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*s74PhkXVDrtHHa3t_KY7KA.jpeg)

Another interesting example is a now-deleted tweet by Tiffany & Co showing a
woman covering one eye that some people believed was a deliberate echo to the
pose adopted by HK supporters during an [Eye4HK
campaign](https://twitter.com/Eye4HK/status/1182143930290196482). A company
later apologized and [deleted](https://www.hongkongfp.com/2019/10/08/tiffany-
removes-advert-hong-kong-controversy/) that tweet after Chinese consumers
accused the jeweler of supporting the Hong Kong protesters.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1280/1*3n-QdpdlNaE-CL3z-aS_9Q.jpeg)

image by [HKFP](https://www.hongkongfp.com/2016/01/17/why-689-is-the-magic-
number/)

It’s worth mentioning that this was not an isolated incident involving hidden
messages. In 2014, Puma
[removed](https://www.hongkongfp.com/2016/01/17/why-689-is-the-magic-number/)
a photo it posted of a runner’s identification tag bearing the number
[#D7689](https://twitter.com/hashtag/D7689), which can be translated as “fuck
Leung Chun-ying”, who was a HK’s Chief Executive at that time.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1110/1*7kz4254XiaZLcfNVZaBUYg.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1506/1*HX0fNRCP9h7GcXRUULIHpw.jpeg)

images by [HKFP](https://www.hongkongfp.com/2016/01/17/why-689-is-the-magic-
number/)

The current HK Chief Executive Carrie Lam has a nickname “777”, but a hashtag
[#D7777](https://twitter.com/hashtag/D7777) didn’t get much adoption on social
media may be due to being too common in other cultures.
[#DLLM](https://twitter.com/hashtag/DLLM) is used instead to express emotions,
but it doesn’t have any hidden meaning rather than simply “fuck your mom”.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1200/1*U46I-hXdhk9rwpmn1uh8HQ.jpeg)

twitter: [D7689DLLM](https://twitter.com/D7689DLLM)

But what’s the reason for using a hidden message if the meaning is obvious?
Well, it introduces plausible deniability, because a person can always blame
the suspected message on an unintended coincidence or over-reading. For
example, Blitzchung has been
[suspended](https://www.reddit.com/r/hearthstone/comments/devia0/blizzard_ruling_on_hk_interview_blitzchung/)
by Blizzard for voicing support for HK pro-democracy protests during his
[interview](https://twitter.com/InvenGlobal/status/1180954142396710912).
However, it would be extremely hard for corporations to discipline or fire
employees for simply showing their love for King Kong or wearing Winnie-the-
Pooh cloths, because these actions won’t violate any rules and can trigger a
huge public backlash in case of any repercussions. As a result, fans can
approach their music idols and movie stars on social media asking them to wear
Winnie-the-Pooh t-shirts, or show support for King Kong with hashtags like
#RetweetIfYouCare or [#ProveThatYouCare](https://github.com/SamAI-
Software/decentralized-activism#provethatyoucare-campaign).

# Other tactics

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*9K3desG3nYsHpK1rcSZKuw.jpeg)

Over the the last few months HK activists created many petitions and websites
([hkrev.info](https://hkrev.info),
[standwithhk.org](https://standwithhk.org/),
[hkpfreport.org](https://www.hkpfreport.org/),
[hkprotect.org](https://hkprotect.org), [bandinchina](https://caffeine-
overload.github.io/bandinchina/), [hkongs.com](https://www.hkongs.com/)), and
they often add short URL links and QR codes to informational posters, so
readers can easily engage with the content.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*H_5zTfgZwBtgxvjhChfJkA.jpeg)

Activists in other countries started opening Wi-Fi hotspots with pro-HK
slogans to bring more attention to the movement.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*fJmvMPzZUZW_iBVhMkjinA.jpeg)

Gamers spammed “FREE HONG KONG” during League of Legends world championship
when the Hong Kong Team took the stage. _Note that a user S0meoneSTrange
shouted “FREE KING KONG”._

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*yTeKlzv6dbZnimw8Bmz5tA.jpeg)

Gamers vandalized the CCP flag in online game Rust.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1120/1*jvC9rHN81PRWEEDFPwJfuQ.jpeg)

Activists started review-bombing Blizzard games with the 1 star rating and
pro-HK reviews. EU-based gamers also massively [submitted GDPR
requests](https://www.reddit.com/r/hearthstone/comments/df0zx5/upset_about_blizzards_hk_ruling_heres_what_to_do/),
because those requests are very hard to comply with since they cannot be fully
automated.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*uW3XGQLU_PhiB31424ReGQ.png)

And, of course, gamers started cancelling their subscriptions and deleting
accounts, so Blizzard made it [extremely
hard](https://www.reddit.com/r/FuckBlizzard/comments/dikqe9/blizzard_helping/)
to delete an account.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*M81ualFgFe64PoUyxVSImQ.jpeg)

Some activists moved further, leaving pro-HK comments in very unexpected
places like
[PornHub](https://www.reddit.com/r/PornhubComments/comments/djlon6/things_that_matter/).

# Mascots

Pepe the Frog and Lipig are two the most common symbols of resistance among HK
protesters. _Side note: Pepe the Frog is a_[ _pro-democracy freedom
fighter_](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/19/world/asia/hong-kong-protest-
pepe-frog.html) _in Hong Kong and it’s not associated with America’s alt-
right._

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*V22KbEXrQtmr1FRsHSzd-g.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/720/1*tcoAS_tN1zLSlAuFpaXAwQ.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*DayXn8e1P5qreJVK9al-bg.jpeg)

Mascots are used in memes, stickers, and informational posters.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/820/1*y1QvyuYsaNTgMVav34aejQ.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1480/1*E9qoblrjJ6cGkhbmG989NQ.jpeg)

The most interesting part is an attempt to punish certain companies by
choosing their characters as HK pro-democracy mascots. Since Winnie-the-Pooh
is banned in China due to the association with Xi Jinping, activists decided
to link many other characters to Hong Kong protests in a hope that the CCP
will block them as well.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*CDDya60MPqSCh-ovhnJUoQ.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2160/1*og6FGMK0Cm-TzkkBcZU8hw.jpeg)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1200/1*IUCYjOy2YHYnWyzYVxRI4Q.jpeg)

As we’ve already discussed above, Mei from Blizzard’s Overwatch is currently
the main nominee for the HK pro-democracy mascot among digital activists, but
there were also attempts to turn Rey from Star Wars and Disney’s Mickey Mouse
into HK freedom fighters.

And the most creative idea I’ve seen so far was to turn Xi Jinping himself
into a HK protester. Xi Jinping will obviously not be banned, but at least
censors will have to manually delete his photos from Chinese apps if those
images will have certain symbols, colors and texts, which can be associated
with HK protests.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*BdG4epBze94I4gVyazLHvQ.jpeg)

# Conclusion

The CCP is exporting censorship across the world and teaches authoritarian
governments how to wage propaganda wars, while Hongkongers teach us how to
resist and fight for the freedom on the streets and in a digital space.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*xAl73RtAsEQ9NSxR9cDaqQ.jpeg)

by [elsonliphotography](https://www.facebook.com/elsonliphotography)

Hongkongers also teach us how to stay determined and pursue our dreams no
matter what, hoping that one day we all can come together, take off masks, and
celebrate peace, freedom, and love, because “happy home is that simple”.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*Z8s9--f0_E0GyNuyckcPyQ.jpeg)

by [bitterboysdiary](https://www.instagram.com/p/B3kG-Y7A1MY/)

If you want to support more candid articles about Hong Kong, crypto, security
& privacy please **share this article** ,
[**retweet**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software/status/1203995328346775553),
or [**donate crypto**](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-
activism#donate).

To learn more about HK protests check out this reddit
[**megathread**](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cxsz4i/megathread_resources_for_antiextradition_protest/).

 _Disclaimer: I am not a licensed financial advisor, and this article is not a
financial advice. The information presented here is for educational purpose
only, it represents my personal opinion, and is not purported to be fact. Seek
a duly licensed professional for an investment advice._

Before buying any cryptocurrencies, consider reading [this article](/crypto-
punks/how-not-to-lose-your-money-when-entering-a-crypto-market-8b95b68d1b76)
about most common mistakes amateur investors make when entering a crypto
market.

[

## How not to lose your money when entering a crypto market

### I’ve lost money in flash crashes and during a bear market. I’ve learnt it
the hard way, but I’ve learnt it. Here’s what…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/how-not-to-lose-your-money-when-entering-a-crypto-
market-8b95b68d1b76)

If you’re an activist, then check out an open source project [**decentralized-
activism**](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-activism), which
shares the best practices from different decentralized movements across the
globe.

[

## SamAI-Software/decentralized-activism

### The purpose of this project is to raise global solidarity, unite people,
and exchange valuable knowledge and experience…

github.com

](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-activism)

  * Help inform people about Hong Kong by **clapping** 50 times 👏
  * I only write a quality content about cryptocurrencies, blockchain, privacy, security, and Hong Kong. Follow me on [**medium**](/@SamAI_Software), [**twitter**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software), or [**mastodon**](https://mastodon.technology/@samai), and you won’t regret that.
  * Send me a direct message on [**twitter**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software) **** or [**linkedin**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/samaisoftware) if you want me to help improve your project, white paper, website, or sponsor my next articles.

 _Thanks to_[ _Mattias Nystrom_](https://twitter.com/mat77ias) _for a review._

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Crypto Punks](/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
9075534d4c08--------------------------------)

Crypto revolution has begun

[Read more from Crypto Punks](/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
9075534d4c08--------------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----9075534d4c08--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
9075534d4c08--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
9075534d4c08--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
9075534d4c08--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
9075534d4c08--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----9075534d4c08--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----9075534d4c08--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcrypto-
punks%2Fhong-kong-digital-warriors-fight-for-freedom-with-memes-hashtags-and-
hidden-messages-9075534d4c08&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Sam
Aiken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/0*KLR9G_nzD3rK1p1w.jpg)](/@SamAI_Software)

[

## Sam Aiken

](/@SamAI_Software)

1.2K Followers

We are one big community

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F3cf7356baaf9&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcrypto-
punks%2Fhong-kong-digital-warriors-fight-for-freedom-with-memes-hashtags-and-
hidden-
messages-9075534d4c08&newsletterV3=39881a7541cc&newsletterV3Id=3cf7356baaf9&user=Sam+Aiken&userId=39881a7541cc&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Monique
Schmidt](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*20XqseZAGsSukX0c)](/@dahomey4eva?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------0f49a7e9_542d_4290_a06f_d3045abbe710-------)

[Monique Schmidt

](/@dahomey4eva?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
0f49a7e9_542d_4290_a06f_d3045abbe710-------)

## I had a brilliant poem to write, but the image of money wouldn’t load.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*68YHN91r-f-
YmPdk)](/@dahomey4eva/i-had-a-briliant-poem-to-write-but-the-image-of-money-
wouldnt-load-8414161c3ba3?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------0f49a7e9_542d_4290_a06f_d3045abbe710-------)

[[![The
GIST](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*1dx7Ej9poOEVPo_cMRNbRg.png)](/@TheGist?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------0f49a7e9_542d_4290_a06f_d3045abbe710-------)

[The GIST

](/@TheGist?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
0f49a7e9_542d_4290_a06f_d3045abbe710-------)

## 🏀 NCAA: What’s next?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*0M1Ia4gjufveMuI8ims0UA.png)](/@TheGist/ncaa-
whats-next-950a5b76c9e8?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
0f49a7e9_542d_4290_a06f_d3045abbe710-------)

[[![landmarks
Joe](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*HbzWAwMSZJ5LtR8rSIkOqQ.png)](/@yousefhusni1382003?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------0f49a7e9_542d_4290_a06f_d3045abbe710-------)

[landmarks Joe

](/@yousefhusni1382003?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
0f49a7e9_542d_4290_a06f_d3045abbe710-------)

## Mysteries of Stephen Hawking’s doodle-filled blackboard may finally be
solved

](/@yousefhusni1382003/mysteries-of-stephen-hawkings-doodle-filled-blackboard-
may-finally-be-solved-e13388ccdad5?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------0f49a7e9_542d_4290_a06f_d3045abbe710-------)

[[![Lex
Focus](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Fcufedj4ZPXmh_O8p4ZlPg.png)](/@lexfocusonline?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------0f49a7e9_542d_4290_a06f_d3045abbe710-------)

[Lex Focus

](/@lexfocusonline?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
0f49a7e9_542d_4290_a06f_d3045abbe710-------)

## A conversation with Vusi Mashinini

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*tV8ZtXhzZpg0iqZulnEpUQ.jpeg)](/@lexfocusonline/a-conversation-
with-vusi-mashinini-4a237cac4fdf?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------0f49a7e9_542d_4290_a06f_d3045abbe710-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

