[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ¬∑

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![How Do You Define the Word "Community?" A Deep Dive Into the World of
Ethereum](/static/4070a3f292829a4fbd064bedcb3b2f2a/2a43b/header.jpg)

[Research](/blog/category/research/)

[Community](/blog/category/community/)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

## How Do You Define the Word "Community?" A Deep Dive Into the World of
Ethereum

By [Joshua Long](/blog/author/joshua-long/) & [Martin
Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

¬∑

October 01, 2019

# Proving an Idea üí≠

You can build in your mind the greatest, most revolutionary piece of
technology ever, something which would change the world, improve lives,
potentiate other amazing technologies, and recalibrate the course of history.
Ideas created in a vacuum are isolated sparks of creativity; if you are only
discussing them with yourself, or individuals who have a vested interest in
them being ' _good, '_ then that's all they'll ever be, concepts without real-
world context.

In order to see if an idea is worthwhile, it is necessary to take it out into
the wider world and expose it to criticism from a range of different people in
order to prove its utility, and to sculpt it into something which will gain
adoption, fulfil a purpose, and embed itself into the lives of real people.

**But how do you go about getting unbiased feedback?** The answer to this
question is certainly not pitching your idea directly to people, as they will
likely react with an overblown sense of positivity or negativity to an idea
which is given to them wholesale. To compound the counterproductive nature of
this approach, giving someone a fully-sketched-out idea doesn't allow the
space for active co-creation. Differences of experience and opinion are a
feature, not a bug when it comes to building things.

Tell someone your idea, and they will react; regardless of if this is
positive, negative, or somewhere in between, it is unlikely that this reaction
will engage their minds to the degree that is needed for high-quality, idea-
sculpting research.

On the other hand, ask the right questions, and not only will you get an
implied yes or no to your proposal, you will have the wriggle room to get
much, much more...

Over the past few months, we have been undertaking some research in order to
ensure that we are not making assumptions, but rather, being led by the
successes, failures, wants, and needs of the communities that our actions are
intending to elevate. In the spirit of openness, and because we knew that some
of the findings of this research could feed into things that other people or
organizations are currently building, we decided to open source some of the
most pertinent of our findings.

_We hope that this information helps you, regardless of the quest that you are
currently on._

# Methodology üìã

_Trying to learn from customer conversations is like excavating a delicate
archaeological site. The truth is down there somewhere, but it‚Äôs fragile.
While each blow with your shovel gets you closer to the truth, you‚Äôre liable
to smash it into a million little pieces if you use too blunt an instrument. -
The Mom Test, Rob Fitzpatrick_

Taking this advice to hand, we developed the sharpest of implements that we
could possibly think of, a list of questions which in no way pointed to what
we are currently working on ( _more on that in time_ ) but which allowed us to
gain a deep insight into the pressures and pains of being a part of the
Ethereum community today.

The interviews allowed us to create a relationship with our interviewees,
gaining a far more intimate insight into the other person's way of thinking,
valuing their opinions and thoughts far better than a questionnaire to
hundreds of projects would have given us.

These questions were asked of a multiplicity of different interviewees via
Zoom; we talked to developers, organizers, artists, academics, businesspeople,
and more, with each interview concluding with a question that allowed us to
press a little further:

_Given the questions that we 've asked you today, is there anyone else that
you'd recommend we talk to in order to gain deeper insight?_

The rhizomatic nature of human relationships and the distributed formation of
communities means that there will always be another interesting individual who
is just an introduction away from passing over some deep, heretofore
unthought-of insight. Our method sought to play with the concept of _six
degrees of separation_ as best we could, and it was by virtue of this way of
doing things that we managed to talk to as many interesting individuals as we
did, stretching from California to New York, from Madrid to Berlin, and to
many, many places in between. In total, we clocked in 30 individual calls.
Obviously this is not the greatest number, but we are just two people with
limited time.

**You can view the questions at the bottom of this article**

# Analysis üìä

**Defining Community ü§î**

One of the most (ab)used terms in the space seems to be the word _community_.
In order to get a better picture of exactly what it is that we mean by this,
we asked interviewees on how they would define this word. This question did
double duty, as it framed people for questions which came up further into the
interview surrounding the (hopefully now-defined,) concept of community.

The answers to this question can fairly easily be split into three groups,
**the interoperable, the positive,** and **the negative**.

**The interoperable** answers were ones which could be used to describe any
community, here are some examples:

  * _community is a process - not a state, it 's a feeling that we have when we feel supported/loved/acknowledged and in the right place;_
  * _[the number of] people [that] are needed for rules/law to exist;_ and
  * _any group of people coming together around a common interest or goal._

**The positive** answers were ones which instantly framed the question in
terms of Ethereum, and talked about the things which we get right, the themes
here were vision, values, and acceptance, exemplified by quotes like:

  * _anyone who identifies as part of the Ethereum community is a part of the Ethereum community;_
  * _a bunch of people sharing a common vision;_
  * _people with a genuine interest in the technology, people working in the space on real use cases, not shill-y traders;_ and
  * _people who have a shared story that they 're enacting._

**The negative** answers were ones which also framed the question in terms of
Ethereum, but talked about the things which could be done better, this section
included:

  * _the community sometimes forgets about users, the community needs to open to non-community users;_
  * _we have a lot of work to do on educating people on what wallets are, what crypto is;_ and
  * _there is a tendency to think that everything can be embraced, not everything will work though. What are the core values and actions that bring the community together? We are still figuring this out._

**Communication ü§ê**

We asked interviewees these questions on the subject of communication:

_How do you find out about upcoming events and recent developments/news?_

_How do you get the word out about things you are personally involved in?_

_Are you using multiple tools in order to facilitate coordination and/or
communication?_

These three questions sought to find out what the most-commonly used tools
were for our interviewees when it comes to coming together physically, as well
as getting the word out about projects, concepts, and interesting
developments.

[ ![one](/static/27cfa1c74a7f5ebcf4e13fddf79afd7b/fcda8/one.png)
](/static/27cfa1c74a7f5ebcf4e13fddf79afd7b/b1945/one.png) _How do you find out
about upcoming events and recent developments/news?_

For events and news, **Meetup.com, Twitter, and Newsletters** are the main
platforms that the community uses to keep itself informed.

[ ![two](/static/b5f668deff057f8502df2c741dcb5f18/fcda8/two.png)
](/static/b5f668deff057f8502df2c741dcb5f18/3c9d8/two.png) _How do you get the
word out about things you are personally involved in?_

**Twitter, Telegram and Newsletters** / **Email** all rank highly for getting
the word out about things.

[ ![three](/static/1cba6a068d35dab78f36502581064703/fcda8/three.png)
](/static/1cba6a068d35dab78f36502581064703/88820/three.png) _Are you using
multiple tools in order to facilitate coordination and/or communication?_

**Telegram and Discord** were the top two tools for _coordinating and/or
communicating._

Here we can see that **Twitter, Telegram, and Email** play a big role in
facilitating the spread of information and organizing that goes on within the
community. It is, however, clear that there is fragmentation when it comes to
communication streams, with a few respondents remarking that the spread of
different communications channels is mentally exhausting and deleterious to
synergy and progress within the community. Notably (and in our eyes this is a
positive note) Facebook did not play a big role for any of the interviewees.

**dapp Usage üßÆ**

_How many dapps are you using?_

It is important to note here that our interviews were conducted in a way that
aimed to build a relationship. Thus our methodology is not the most stringent
when it comes to inferring numbers in a systematic way and they should be
taken as ‚Äúsemi-quantitative‚Äù at best. We did not provide a specific lists of
dapps that we asked interviewees to check; this method would probably have
provided us with a more reliable final tally.

As a result, many respondents did not mention some tools they use. Also the
definition of what a dapp is or is not is not well defined, with some
respondents taking dapp to mean any kind of privacy-preserving, secure, or
open-source replacement for an application. MetaMask had a contentious status
as a dapp to our participants, being included by some, missed by others, and
remarked upon as not part of the category by at least one person. Status.im
was also mentioned a few times as a tool for communication, but then was not
brought up as an answer to this question.

Here we have taken what participants have given us by way of an answer to a
direct question, rather than adding in tools they mentioned using when we
picked them up. We believe this is valuable because the distinction between
someone _knowing they 're using a dapp_ and _not knowing but using a dapp_ ,
is important.

**50% of all people we interviewed did not use dapps**

This was a factor that required further investigation, and so we followed up
the above question with: _what 's bad about them?_ or similar. What follows is
a selection of different quotes from answers to this question.

_" I do not use dapps. Look at stateofthedapps: this ranking is dismal."_

_‚ÄúOnboarding beyond the crypto space seems to be not ready. Many dapps exist
only in echo chambers.‚Äù_

" _They work well - but no-one is there, learning curves are pretty steep "_

_‚ÄúThe network effects - almost no users and also among my peers no-one is
using [them] really.‚Äù_

_‚ÄúThe most common suck factor is that the dapps don 't make any sense, no
utility - just toys, games that are not fun to play, the bulk of dapps are
stupid useless little things that there is no reason for me to use.‚Äù_

When looked at as a whole, comments on dapps were less about UX, bad design,
and a lack of utility, and more about the absence of a user base to give a
reason to be within an ecosystem, this was further compounded by the
difficulty of taking action on this and helping to get more people onboarded.
Save for a few, it would seem that a lot of the individuals that we talked to
thought that dapps can provide valuable functions, improving people's lives,
but are hampered by network effects.

**The most common answer to the question was MetaMask** , with a good portion
of respondents using Decentralized Finance and Decentralized Autonomous
Organization dapps.

**Sustainability üå±**

We asked our interviewees this question:

_How are you making sure your activities are sustainable_

We are aware that there are a lot of different ways that respondents could
take this, and preferred not to steer people unless they asked for further
clarification; the majority of responses took the question to mean financial
sustainability.

**Among event organizers** most work for free, with some getting sponsorship -
covering a room and drinks but not much else. There are also some companies
and people getting paid to organize events, but on the whole this was a
rarity. There are several examples where community organizers were able to
secure highly-paid positions due to the size of the communities that they had
helped to grow, and the networks that this had given them access to.

**A good slice of people that we interviewed** work other jobs outside of the
activities/projects that they are working on within the Ethereum community.
The field organizes itself in a traditional commons-based peer production way
- voluntarily for no direct financial reward.

**Startups are VC financed** or operate in a service-oriented business model.

A lack of transparency in the awarding process for grants was raised by some.
This is of concern in the longer term as a mutual trust is lacking and it
seems from the feedback that things are often the opposite of original
intentions. There looks to be a healthy learning process required and good
role models may even be found among some of those institutions that we aim to
disrupt. Better to not reinvent the wheel and review all our ways of
operating. We should be vigilant and open for critique to create long-lasting
trusted institutions with fair and transparent governance for everyone.
**After all this is one of the big reasons why people are drawn to the this
community.**

**Interoperability üìü**

One of the disadvantages of fragmentation of communication/community building
when it comes to Web 2.0 platforms is the fact that they are not interoperable
by design. A community built in Facebook cannot be ported in its entirety to
Twitter and then over once again to create an email list.

This issue creates a power dynamic when it comes to the bigger platforms that
are used to organize and coordinate online; **if Meetup.com decides that you
have violated their terms, then they can take away your access to their
platform** , and then with it goes all of that effort put into building a
community. To get a feel for if this is a worry which is shared across the
community, we asked:

_To what extent are you concerned about lack of interoperability of the social
graph?_

When highlighted that a platform may withdraw access to the connections,
everyone agreed that this is a problem, some were in fact prompted to
immediately start measures to collect their contacts in another form in order
to avoid this becoming an issue.

Further discussion took place around the fact that this interoperability also
increases the amount of work that individuals have to undertake in order to
push out information about things that they're working on, as well as
generating further conversations.

For a lot of our respondents, this was an extra stress that meant they had to
gain skills in an unfamiliar area, with some of them working a day job,
working on a project, and also acting as a de facto
community/communications/marketing manager. When managing a large variety of
different platforms is your job, this kind of thing is par for the course;
when having to do so in order to achieve something else, it's just an
impediment to progress.

**Pressing challenges üßó**

_What are the current most pressing challenges for your involvement in the
Ethereum community when it comes to coordination?_

The responses to this question were very heterogeneous. However there was a
clear desire for an increased focus on adoption, communication, and
coordination. Many people spoke to the difficulties of governance and
organizing within decentralized communities and projects, as well as
expressing an interest for finding tools which could allow communication to be
less fragmented, and information easier to spread around the community - one
of these desired sources of information, which came up a few times was a
global calendar for events.

On top of this, real-world utility and use cases were mentioned, as well as
tokens and ICOs often being seen as a sub-optimal way of solving coordination
problems, with one person stating that they were _driving communities apart._

**It 's useful to remark here that this was actually our opening question, but
we felt that it sat better here in the write up.**

**Puzzle pieces üß©**

_What we are missing in the Ethereum community?_

This question was asked near to the end of the interview, situated just before
our _six degrees..._ closer. Below we've put these answers into two
categories.

  * **Involvement of people/project coordination:**

    * _Attracting people from more diverse backgrounds, the social sciences, older people, different people for different people, not only developers._
    * _The core community is too tech-y, they love to use their technical terminology, it makes them a bit isolated from the real world._
    * _We need to have educators to share the tech in a simple way._
    * _Providing guidance to a shared goal._
    * _The Ethereum community feels insular._
    * _There seems to be little interest to interact with other projects._
    * _We need a dedicated medium of communication outside of crypto Twitter._
    * _We lack a coordination for the complex dynamics of the community taking finance and social behaviour into account._
    * _The acknowledgement that there is more than one community._
  * **Funding and futureproofing:**

    * _Sufficient funding for people to be able to do work._
    * _People get burned out if they 're not getting paid. There's a perception that people don't want to demand money for work, the way that it is right now is unsustainable, space is anti-corporate - intractable problem._
    * _We lack understanding of which approaches and projects will actually mature._

**Further interesting quotes üé§**

  * **_On decentralized education opportunities:_** _Education is changing very fast, MIT are launching online programmes around the world about blockchain, ML etc., this means that something is happening, microeducation is becoming a big thing, we can expect big changes in this field. All of our students now come from MOOCs/free education platforms/low price platforms, when they want to go deeper they come to us. We have to help people to develop projects._
  * **_On funding and sustainability:_** _Sustainability is another way of saying subsistence, folks who work on open source should be able to thrive and be fairly compensated for their labour, it 's important for humanity to figure out open source funding,_ **_we want people to thrive,_** _sustainability in open source means middle-aged white males being able to give away free software, if we don 't change that then we're done._
  * **_Communication and collaboration breaks down_** _a bit around funding, this is an interesting area, I like thinking we could get beyond money,_ **_we 're so focussed on money to obviate the need for money_** _, if we could design the right systems then we could help this (DAOs)._
  * **_What we are missing:_** _We are missing coordination. The Foundation has a lot of power in its hands, but it always has the ambition to be transparent, lean and open... what we are missing (which is hard to put in words) is a mix between following the principles of decentralized technologies, but also giving guidance towards a shared goal. Many initiatives try to do this, but we are missing those parts of the community to lead have more channeled efforts to make sense._
  * **_Coordinate efforts._** _The whole space is optimized for intrinsic motivation, visionary individuals, people who are strong in what they want to do. We need to include other motivations: A robust community that incorporates financially motivated people, corporations with pro bono capacity, a community that is robust to take these benefits without being negatively impacted. Make it easier for people who are less experienced, followers and team-workers rather than leaders. Too much thought-leader dominance. Structure and onboarding and guidance for more introverted people to work in a team would help channel efforts. We need "workers" not only those with strong vision and ideas._

# Conclusion ü•†

There were a few recurring themes that came out through this research,
problems to which solutions are currently not provided, not decided upon, or
in their infancy. Here we will highlight five in order to aid anyone who
skipped through the meat of this piece to find out what we discovered in a
more succinct form.

  * **Onboarding -** in many interviews we found that there were big issues around getting people involved in using things because they were too esoteric. People flagged a significant amount of times that an expansion of the community as a whole, via some kind of process of educating and demonstrating value to the unconverted, would do a great deal of good.
  * **Funding -** a lot of the community works for little or no compensation, with event organizers mainly doing things for the love of the technology, and a lot of projects in their infancy being driven by values, ideals, and vision, rather than having managed to secure monetary flows to allow them to step outside of having two jobs in parallel.
  * **Governance -** this frequently came up as an issue, whether it was mentioned by name or not. Organizing in spaces wherein an ethos of decentralization permeates everything that is undertaken can be an issue, and respondents who had a particular focus on governance were very interested in the possibility of experimenting with different forms.
  * **Interoperability -** whether between Web 2.0 platforms or between dapps, forms of siloing which have organically occurred within the community are seen to have a negative effect upon our ability to make the kind of radical change that we'd like to see in the world.
  * **Network effects -** as with the issues of interoperability and onboarding, in order to facilitate the emergence of collective intelligence, you first have to have a collective. A lot of discussion took place around the issue of adoption, with many people wishing that it was easier to grow usage of their particular project in order for it to reach its potential.

There may be some mystery surrounding why we undertook this research; it may
seem that our questions to not point to anything very specific by way of an
idea that we are sculpting and attempting to prove utility for. It's also
possible that it is patently obvious what we are doing... either way we will
be making a big announcement very soon, so watch this space.

# Thanks üôè

To all those of you who gave your time after receiving an email from us, a
friend, an acquaintance, or a business contact, thank you! One of the most
unique things about this community, or this intertwined mesh of communities -
depending upon how you view it/them - is the sense of openness and warmth that
runs through everything that it does, and everyone that is involved with it.
Having had to do 'market' research before, in a different setting, we were
astounded by the willingness with which people gave up a part of their day to
allow us a window into their world.

And it's this which is probably the biggest takeaway outside of the analysis
which we have undertaken above. Together we are creating a new world, one
which replaces closed, proprietary systems with open, decentralized ones; one
which questions hierarchies and digs deep into new forms of governance; one
which looks at why we do things, and asks if this is for our own good, or a
product of the structures that we have developed with little thought about
where we are going.

There will be further announcements to come as a result of this research, but
for now, if you're interested in the things discussed here, why not [get in
touch](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#f69e939a9a99b6979d97859e97d88199849a92)?

* * *

### AKASHA Research Questions üôã‚ùì

  1. What are the current most pressing challenges for your involvement in the Ethereum community when it comes to coordination?
  2. Have you looked into tools solving this?
  3. Define ‚Äúcommunity‚Äù
  4. How many dapps are you using?
  5. How do you find out about upcoming events and recent developments/news?
  6. How do you get the word out about things you are personally involved in?
  7. To what extent are you concerned about lack of interoperability of your social graph?
  8. Are you using multiple tools in order to facilitate coordination and/or communication?
  9. How are you making sure your activities are sustainable?
  10. What is the size of your average event or audience?
  11. How do you keep your attendees engaged?
  12. How do you get interesting speakers/organizations involved?
  13. What is, in your mind, the value of an event?
  14. What are we missing in the Ethereum community today?
  15. What is the greatest pain point for your personal involvement in the community?
  16. Is there anything else I/we should have asked?
  17. Is there anyone else that I/we should talk to?

[Research](/blog/category/research/)

[Community](/blog/category/community/)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 ‚Äî Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 ‚Äî Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt‚Ä¶

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

Mar√≠a Sanmart√≠n and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and‚Ä¶

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 ‚Äî Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 ‚Äî Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized‚Ä¶

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ¬∑

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2019/10/01/how-
do-you-define-the-word-community)

