[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/fc18f3c0516b&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Crypto
Punks](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*RuBSr8PcbcSSimYWrpQsHA.png)](https://medium.com/crypto-
punks?source=post_page-----fc18f3c0516b--------------------------------)

Published in

[Crypto Punks

](https://medium.com/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
fc18f3c0516b--------------------------------)

[![Sam
Aiken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/0*KLR9G_nzD3rK1p1w.jpg)](/@SamAI_Software?source=post_page
-----fc18f3c0516b--------------------------------)

[Sam Aiken](/@SamAI_Software?source=post_page-----
fc18f3c0516b--------------------------------)

Follow

Jan 26, 2020

·

12 min read

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*_fxSzjE-2kZqKURH66vaTw.jpeg)

Unsplash: [Tim Mossholder](https://unsplash.com/photos/qjgdslbEn-I)

# How to structure the satellite holdings and rebalance a crypto portfolio

## Amateur investors often allocate too much funds into altcoins and don’t
rebalance a crypto portfolio during price swings, which leads to unnecessary
risks

 **This article is a part of “How to onboard your folks to crypto” series:**

  1. [The modern financial system from gold to petroyuan & de-dollarization](/crypto-punks/how-to-onboard-your-folks-to-crypto-1-from-gold-to-petroyuan-de-dollarization-a3dc29201210)
  2. [Debunking misconceptions about crypto deflation](/crypto-punks/crypto-economics-debunking-misconceptions-about-deflation-bd8c020ed21d)
  3. [How not to lose your money when entering a crypto market](/crypto-punks/how-not-to-lose-your-money-when-entering-a-crypto-market-8b95b68d1b76)
  4. [How to choose the core holdings of a crypto portfolio](/crypto-punks/how-to-choose-the-core-holdings-of-a-crypto-portfolio-df81abc61ec9)
  5. Satellite holdings and rebalancing of a crypto portfolio (current)

 _Disclosure: some links in this article are referral links. I also own BTC,
ETH, BCH, XMR, and all other coins mentioned in the article, but my portfolio
is heavily diversified, so I don’t have financial incentives to shill for any
particular coin. This article is brought to you by a privacy-oriented peer-to-
peer marketplace_[ ** _LocalCryptos_**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra)
_._

# Intro

In the previous articles we’ve discussed how the [modern financial
system](/crypto-punks/how-to-onboard-your-folks-to-crypto-1-from-gold-to-
petroyuan-de-dollarization-a3dc29201210) evolved from commodity money to
unbacked fiat money that constantly loses its value, we’ve debunked
[misconceptions about deflation](/crypto-punks/crypto-economics-debunking-
misconceptions-about-deflation-bd8c020ed21d), talked about the [most common
mistakes](/crypto-punks/how-not-to-lose-your-money-when-entering-a-crypto-
market-8b95b68d1b76) that amateur investors make when entering a crypto
market, and explained how to properly [choose the core holdings](/crypto-
punks/how-to-choose-the-core-holdings-of-a-crypto-portfolio-df81abc61ec9) of a
crypto portfolio in order to reduce risks.

For most people buying and holding a few major cryptos is more than enough to
diversify their investment portfolio. However, many amateur crypto investors
are hungry for high gains in a short period of time, so they make all sorts of
mistakes like allocating too much funds into new altcoins, or day trading with
margin. Those mistakes often lead to huge losses, so it’s important to remind
that the aggressive satellite holdings are by far the riskiest part of a
crypto portfolio, and should not represent more than 10–20% of all crypto
holdings.

In this article we will analyze different aggressive investment strategies and
discuss how to properly structure the satellite holdings of a crypto portfolio
that will give a long-term exposure to a diversified group of coins. We will
also emphasize the importance of portfolio rebalancing.

# A basket of altcoins (crypto index fund)

After structuring the core holdings of a portfolio with a few major coins,
advanced users can add more diversification and increase profits by using more
aggressive strategies like buying many altcoins on exchanges or getting tokens
during ICO sales.

The best way to minimize risks is to follow experienced crypto market
analysts, and do your own research for every project that you’re planning to
invest in. However, there are so many new projects in the crypto space that
ordinary people often don’t have enough time for a research, so they simply
buy **everything** in equal portions. That way they invest not in a particular
project, but rather in a whole altcoin market.

A relatively conservative approach to structuring satellite holdings is to buy
and hold 10 largest cryptos by market cap. Such “top 10 crypto index fund” was
profitable during the bull market of 2017,
[devastating](https://toptencryptoindexfund.com/tracking-2018-top-ten-month-
twenty-four/) during the bear market of 2018, and
[flat](https://toptencryptoindexfund.com/tracking-2019-top-ten-month-twelve/)
in 2019.

However, some investors want to get exposure to more projects so they use more
aggressive strategies like buying and holding 100 top cryptos. This strategy
is very risky, so let’s analyze whether it can be profitable.

> Past performance is not an indicator for future performance.

For example, [this investor](https://www.cryptocompare.com/portfolio-
public/?id=43976) bought 100 top coins for $10 each on January 1, 2017 without
any research.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*RgswIAhx4-uexbHJD7roww.png)

[cryptocompare.com](https://www.cryptocompare.com/portfolio-public/?id=43976)

One year later, on January 1, 2018 his initial investment of $1,000 turned
into $71,000 which was a 7,000% growth, while Bitcoin (BTC) had just a 1,300%
growth in the same period of time. As we can see, investing in 100 different
coins was extremely lucrative during a previous crypto bull run.

It’s important to understand though that due to low liquidity altcoins crash
hard during bear markets, so the same portfolio fell down from $71K in 2018 to
$5K in 2020, which was a 93% decline.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*0CMHzjtkS1L0f7Glgyt7Eg.png)

[cryptocompare.com](https://www.cryptocompare.com/portfolio-public/?id=43976)

However, $5,000 was still 5 times higher than the initial investment of $1,000
in January 2017, which was a good result for just 3 years of holding, even
though Bitcoin (BTC) outperformed that result with +680% gains for the same
period of time.

If you’ve decided to get lots of altcoins for the satellite holdings, then
make sure that the altcoin market has entered a bull cycle, otherwise your
portfolio will shrink very fast. The easiest way to get so many coins is to
register on a centralized exchange with many altcoins. This way you trust an
exchange to do a research for you and add only coins that have some community
support and a growing demand. Keep in mind though that some exchanges might
add altcoins simply if developers will pay enough fees for the listing, which
doesn’t mean that a project is worth investing in.

## ICOs and IEOs

Another aggressive strategy is buying tokens during ICO or
[IEO](https://coincodex.com/ieo-list/) sales. Here is [an
example](https://www.cryptocompare.com/portfolio-public/?id=8897) of investing
1 BTC in 14 popular ICOs each. As we can see, those ICO tokens performed 20
times better than Bitcoin (BTC) during a bull run of 2017.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*-f38iE_4Twk50bW2eoPK_w.png)

[cryptocompare.com](https://www.cryptocompare.com/portfolio-public/?id=8897)

However, the same as 100 altcoins from the example above, those 14 ICO tokens
crashed hard during the bear market of 2018–2019.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*myAaV8B6mVC7wAtbIFsDTQ.png)

[cryptocompare.com](https://www.cryptocompare.com/portfolio-public/?id=8897)

One can argue that holding those 14 ICO tokens was still 3 times more
profitable than holding Bitcoin (BTC). That’s right, but if we examine those
tokens [closer](https://www.cryptocompare.com/portfolio-public/?id=8897), we
will see that the half of the projects has totally failed and Ethereum (ETH)
makes 85% of that ICO portfolio. In other words, most of ICO tokens will go to
zero during a long bear market, so it’s extremely risky to allocate more than
10–20% of crypto investments in new projects.

Thus I wouldn’t recommend anybody to invest any significant amount of money
into ICOs or IEOs, but buying a few tokens can be an interesting experience
that will give you a better understanding of how ICOs work, and how some
successful projects eventually migrate to their own blockchain (main network
or mainnet).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*argGxGMtWZaVnWWXiyOe2g.jpeg)

This article is brought to you by a privacy-oriented peer-to-peer self-
custodial end-to-end encrypted marketplace
[**LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra), where you can buy &
sell cryptocurrencies for fiat money. To start trading, create a new password-
protected account or log in with your [**favorite
wallet**](https://blog.localcryptos.com/localethereum-integrates-with-
wallets/?ref=eimahra) such as Ledger, MetaMask, or mobile apps like imToken.

[ **LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra) is an industry
leader in peer-to-peer non-custodial trading and a long-term sponsor of
[CryptoPunks](https://medium.com/crypto-punks) blog.

# Leverage investing vs. margin trading

When a crypto portfolio is fully built, some users might want to get
additional adrenaline with aggressive **leverage investing** using margin
trading on centralized exchanges during a bull market. I urge you that this
strategy can lead to [significant losses](/crypto-punks/how-we-lost-90-of-
crypto-investments-in-a-few-hours-64fdf1fd5ea1), especially in case of flash
crashes, so please do not allocate there more than 5–10% of a crypto portfolio
and be ready to have a less quality sleep.

Here is what you need to understand about losses:

  * If you lose 10%, you will need to gain 11% to return to the same value.
  * If you lose 50%, you will need to gain 100% to return to the same value.
  * If you lose 75%, you will need to gain 300% to return to the same value.

That means that losing a big chunk of your portfolio has a much more
devastating effect than you probably thought, so try to diversify your
portfolio, reduce the risks, and avoid a single point of failure.

If you still want to try margin, then I’d emphasize that day trading is a
zero-sum game, where beginners constantly lose their money to more experienced
traders. Instead of day trading with margin, one can try leverage investing,
which is a bit safer approach if executed properly. The idea is to simply buy
a well-established high-liquidity crypto asset during a bull market using 2x
leverage and hold this position for a long time.

 _Side note: you still can lose everything in just a few seconds even with 2x
leverage in case of flash crashes, because the only way to protect yourself
from flash crashes is to use no margin trade, and no stop loss orders (use
stop limit orders instead)._

[TradingView](https://www.tradingview.com/markets/cryptocurrencies/ideas/) can
help you learn basics of technical analysis and get some free ideas about a
good buy-in zone and where the market is heading to.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/1*YsYYFGnBq-vZGM1oFM5E7w.png)

[TradingView](https://www.tradingview.com/chart/BTCUSD/7lgOo7Ag-Thank-You-
Bitcoin-Bears-New-Buy-Signal-Can-See-Break-Of-8500/)

The difference between leverage investing and leverage trading is that you
don’t take a profit immediately when an asset goes up, but instead you keep on
holding for a long period of time. You can even increase your position on the
next correction while keeping the leverage ratio at the same level (e.g. not
more than 2x leverage). Eventually, you’ll have to cash out though, otherwise
you’ll be liquidated during a next bear market cycle, so be cautious.

For most people leverage investing during a bull market is more profitable
than day trading because it’s much easier to spot a “support” level and buy
more coins, rather than spot an ATH (all-time-high) and sell at the best
price. Quite often during a bull run people will sell when the market is
overbought and yet they will miss the greatest rally to the moon.

# Portfolio rebalancing

The idea of rebalancing is to keep your portfolio aligned with your initial
risk-management plan and help boost returns.

## Coins rebalancing

For example, you decided to allocate 80% of your crypto portfolio to 4 major
coins and 20% to a basket of 100 other coins and tokens:

  * 20% BTC
  * 20% ETH
  * 20% BCH
  * 20% XMR
  * 20% a basket of altcoins

Suppose that after a few months XMR skyrocketed comparative to other cryptos,
so your portfolio became:

  * 15% BTC
  * 15% ETH
  * 15% BCH
  * 40% XMR
  * 15% a basket of altcoins

Now 40% of your crypto portfolio consists of only one coin, which is a poor
risk-management plan, so you have to rebalance it and exchange some XMR for
other coins, trying to get closer to initial target allocations.

Rebalancing funds that are held on a centralized custodial exchange is very
cheap and can be done often. On the other hand, rebalancing coins stored on a
[**hardware wallet**](http://bit.ly/to_ledger) via services like
[Changelly](https://changelly.com/), [SimpleSwap](https://simpleswap.io/),
[ChangeNow](https://changenow.io/), or other non-custodial exchanges, will
cost you much money on fees and so decrease your potential gains. Thus it’s
much easier to hold satellite holdings on a few reputable custodial exchanges,
while keeping the core holdings of your crypto portfolio on hardware and
software wallets.

## Wallets rebalancing

For example, you decided to hold 70% of your crypto portfolio on hardware
wallets, 20% on custodial exchanges and 10% on a few software wallets that you
use for payments:

  * 70% hardware wallets
  * 20% custodial exchanges
  * 10% software wallets

Suppose that during a bull run your altcoins held on custodial exchanges
skyrocketed, so your portfolio allocation naturally changed to:

  * 45% hardware wallets
  * 50% custodial exchanges
  * 5% software wallets

Now the half of your crypto portfolio is stored on centralized exchanges,
which is very risky, so you have to rebalance it and move some funds from
exchanges to other wallets, trying to get closer to initial target
allocations.

The example above might sound unrealistic, but that’s exactly what happened in
2017, when small altcoins greatly outperformed major cryptos, and many
investors held those smaller tokens on custodial exchanges due to higher
liquidity and better UX.

The investors that rebalanced their portfolios at least once a month have
either pocketed the profit by converting funds to stablecoins, or moved funds
from speculative projects to well-established cryptos that were better at
holding value during the bear market that started after the massive bull run.

The investors that didn’t spend time rebalancing their portfolios have seen
crazy gains and crazy losses.

## Keep some fiat

More and more crypto enthusiasts abandon fiat money and go full crypto, which
is good from ideological perspective, but it’s a very risky strategy. For
example, they can lose their crypto income during a bear market, because there
will be less money in the space, and so they’ll have to sell their crypto
savings for a very low price in order to pay the bills, since they don’t have
enough fiat.

Thus it’s important to always hold some fiat that can be used as a safety net
or to buy more cryptos during a market crash. If your income is full in
crypto, then you can use dollar-cost averaging to convert some cryptos into
fiat to make sure that you can pay for living during crypto bear markets.

# Follow the news

Once you’ve invested in crypto assets, you have to follow at least major news,
especially if you store some funds on custodial exchanges, because they can
shut down with all your money.

Following one big news publisher is not safe, because there might be a
conflict of interest with certain exchanges or advertisers, so a publisher can
potentially ignore negative news. For example, [CoinDesk was not covering
serious Bitfinex’s issues](/crypto-punks/coindesk-bitfinex-tether-3be2954d1b3)
in the end of 2017. _Side note: CoinDesk improved the coverage since then._

However, there are so many things happening in the crypto space every day that
following all the news will take too much time. The solution is to use news
aggregators such as [Reddit](https://reddit.com/r/cryptocurrency) or
[CryptoPanic](https://cryptopanic.com) **** with different filters including
keywords.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1360/1*TfpgRIxGM-zLpM84ZmX0ow.png)

[CryptoPanic](https://cryptopanic.com)

You can type in names of your exchanges and tickers of your core holdings with
filters like “Important” or “Rising” in order to get most important news.

Big exchanges are often under an attack from hackers, competitors, and
regulators, so one bad article is not a reason to panic. However, when an
exchange gets lots of bad press from different sources for months, then it’s
the time to do your own investigation and may be move some funds to other
wallets until the storm ends.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*_vnarHnmdvdlbDGVwd9Cog.png)

[CryptoPanic](https://cryptopanic.com) Bitfinex news in 2018

# Conclusion

Now you have more ideas how to structure the aggressive satellite holdings of
a crypto portfolio without exposing yourself to unnecessary risks.

If you’re new to a crypto market, then make sure to read the [previous
articles](/crypto-punks/how-not-to-lose-your-money-when-entering-a-crypto-
market-8b95b68d1b76) where we’ve discussed in details how to buy cryptos using
privacy-oriented platforms, when exactly to buy, and how to store cryptos to
minimize risks.

[

## How not to lose your money when entering a crypto market

### I’ve lost money in flash crashes and during a bear market. I’ve learnt it
the hard way, but I’ve learnt it. Here’s what…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/how-not-to-lose-your-money-when-entering-a-crypto-
market-8b95b68d1b76)

In the next articles of this series we will continue our discussion on why
cryptocurrencies are a better form of money than state-imposed fiat money.

If you want to support more candid articles about crypto, privacy, and
security, then please **share this article** ,
[**retweet**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software/status/1221365100717793280),
[**donate crypto**](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-
activism#donate), or simply sign up at
[**LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra) **** with this
referral link.

 _Disclaimer: I am not a licensed financial advisor, and this article is not a
financial advice. The information presented here is for educational purpose
only, it represents my personal opinion, and is not purported to be fact.
Cryptocurrencies are very volatile and can move quickly in any direction. I’m
not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or
alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any
content, goods, services or companies mentioned in this article. Seek a duly
licensed professional for an investment advice._

If you’re highly concerned about privacy & security, then you should read how
Hong Kong activists [avoid an internet surveillance](/crypto-punks/digital-
resistance-security-privacy-tips-from-hong-kong-protesters-37ff9ef73129).

[

## Digital resistance: security & privacy tips from Hong Kong protesters

### Full digital gear: Telegram, Protonmail, AirDrop, FireChat, Bridgefy,
PrivateBin, Fingertrapp, What3Words, Tor, VPN…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/digital-resistance-security-privacy-tips-from-hong-kong-
protesters-37ff9ef73129)

If you’re an activist, then check out an open source project [**decentralized-
activism**](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-activism), which
shares the best practices from different decentralized movements across the
globe.

[

## SamAI-Software/decentralized-activism

### The purpose of this project is to raise global solidarity, unite people,
and exchange valuable knowledge and experience…

github.com

](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-activism)

  * Help inform people about cryptocurrencies by **clapping** 50 times 👏
  * I only write quality content about cryptocurrencies, blockchain, privacy, security, and Hong Kong. Follow me on [**medium**](/@SamAI_Software), [**twitter**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software), or [**mastodon**](https://mastodon.technology/@samai), and you won’t regret that.
  * Send me a direct message on [**twitter**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software) **** or [**linkedin**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/samaisoftware) if you want me to help improve your project, white paper, website, or sponsor my next articles.
  * Use the most secure, private and intuitive way to swap cryptos with others for your local currency — [**LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra).

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Crypto Punks](/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
fc18f3c0516b--------------------------------)

Crypto revolution has begun

[Read more from Crypto Punks](/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
fc18f3c0516b--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![jamilapatersonofficial](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*W5-2uk96EgYwsHPAuCyThw.png)](/@jamilapatersonofficial?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[jamilapatersonofficial

](/@jamilapatersonofficial?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Research report confirms reason as to how LooksRare has been ‘beating’
OpenSea

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*RJiPsEevJMGxV_53.jpg)](/@jamilapatersonofficial/research-
report-confirms-reason-as-to-how-looksrare-has-been-beating-
opensea-a05d7213655b?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Evelyn Zhang](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*3URw4gttq1XXSJq-
pTvJ4Q.jpeg)](/@evelynng0827?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[Evelyn Zhang

](/@evelynng0827?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## MEXC Global X-Oasis -Don’t Miss a World Class NFT Game/Community Project

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*CChwqSPHd8aOazkI.png)](/@evelynng0827/mexc-
global-x-oasis-dont-miss-a-world-class-nft-game-community-
project-f71b6cfa982c?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Coindirect](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*c0JSKYgiucXOgj8iLHFbxA.jpeg)](/@coindirectcom?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Coindirect

](/@coindirectcom?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[Coindirect Blog

](https://medium.com/coindirect-blog?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## What Makes Coindirect Different?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*wdrgVhp2SHqppkFDMkGk1A.jpeg)](/coindirect-
blog/coindirect-cryptocurrencies-9bd75c55a4d3?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[[![Reef](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*BdkfVNGg1m-kiTxUq9zZDg.jpeg)](/@reefdefi?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Reef

](/@reefdefi?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

## Reef Finance is Co-operating with Finance.vote

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*xrG7cYdSJ3A4RA-3OhkIqw.jpeg)](/@reefdefi/reef-
finance-is-co-operating-with-finance-
vote-31d92b4974ed?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Alberto
Perez](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*-NIQujMkyKe8oF_u.jpg)](/@Nostikof?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Alberto Perez

](/@Nostikof?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

## Originally published on Instagram

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*zPJ5JaD2jxys8Box.)](/@Nostikof/originally-
published-on-instagram-fbbd848fe666?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![.bit \(Previously
DAS\)](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*QUi_zIxmw0H_-
MdK-s30UA.jpeg)](/@dotbit?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[.bit (Previously DAS)

](/@dotbit?source=post_internal_links---------5----------------------------)

## AlphaWallet now integrated DAS

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*h8E0NC8s8AapuYsK6Db7Mg.png)](/@dotbit/alphawallet-
now-integrated-das-f6d4e858f0a6?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Kaby
Arena](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*b2XUOT0fnFvCWyQFoH24rQ.jpeg)](/@kabyarena?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Kaby Arena

](/@kabyarena?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[Kaby Arena

](https://medium.com/kaby-arena?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## $KABY Token listing on Pancakeswap, Quickswap and Gate Exchange

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*kMCm9xzaIczJJR5pFqeLhg.jpeg)](/kaby-
arena/kaby-token-listing-on-pancakeswap-quickswap-and-gate-
exchange-801034715b56?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Cifris](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*0cZYVi28mQ-
NnXTLUo2DMA.jpeg)](/@cifrisnft?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[Cifris

](/@cifrisnft?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## How did the NFT hype start and what you need to know about it

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*RttFAu22HEfnO2-N-4BdgA.jpeg)](/@cifrisnft/how-
did-the-nft-hype-start-and-what-you-need-to-know-about-
it-108ab9df4b30?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----fc18f3c0516b--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
fc18f3c0516b--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
fc18f3c0516b--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
fc18f3c0516b--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
fc18f3c0516b--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----fc18f3c0516b--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----fc18f3c0516b--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcrypto-
punks%2Fhow-to-structure-the-satellite-holdings-and-rebalance-a-crypto-
portfolio-fc18f3c0516b&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Sam
Aiken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/0*KLR9G_nzD3rK1p1w.jpg)](/@SamAI_Software)

[

## Sam Aiken

](/@SamAI_Software)

1.2K Followers

We are one big community

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F3cf7356baaf9&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcrypto-
punks%2Fhow-to-structure-the-satellite-holdings-and-rebalance-a-crypto-
portfolio-
fc18f3c0516b&newsletterV3=39881a7541cc&newsletterV3Id=3cf7356baaf9&user=Sam+Aiken&userId=39881a7541cc&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Elusakin
Olamide](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*EOMBRhkhpg0xtTpI)](/@olamide.oeh?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------d6b0890d_82ef_47a2_be2e_2cb718490aa9-------)

[Elusakin Olamide

](/@olamide.oeh?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
d6b0890d_82ef_47a2_be2e_2cb718490aa9-------)

## THE INTEREST RATE REDUCTION PROMO AND OTHER BENFITS OF USING BINANCE MARGIN

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*pJ8AM7aztqB8zuUn.png)](/@olamide.oeh/the-
interest-rate-reduction-promo-and-other-benfits-of-using-binance-
margin-8db0bb4f4678?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
d6b0890d_82ef_47a2_be2e_2cb718490aa9-------)

[[![Rajan
Gupta](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*1ONwh6mTUQ8aYptArfxVyQ@2x.jpeg)](/@cryptorajhindi?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------d6b0890d_82ef_47a2_be2e_2cb718490aa9-------)

[Rajan Gupta

](/@cryptorajhindi?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
d6b0890d_82ef_47a2_be2e_2cb718490aa9-------)

## Why I invested in CUDOS ??

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*xQo2NtQuq4q_7c-EFEoVFw.png)](/@cryptorajhindi/why-
i-invested-in-cudos-954e04d89d1a?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------d6b0890d_82ef_47a2_be2e_2cb718490aa9-------)

[[![LegacyFX](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*sytOwtTqk6-jwEooqTnQhw.jpeg)](/@legacyfx?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------d6b0890d_82ef_47a2_be2e_2cb718490aa9-------)

[LegacyFX

](/@legacyfx?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
d6b0890d_82ef_47a2_be2e_2cb718490aa9-------)

## Understanding the Reward Risk Ratio

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*CbS8gHJC0X2zPzG5OWccdw.jpeg)](/@legacyfx/understanding-
the-reward-risk-ratio-1e0ef0208a18?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------d6b0890d_82ef_47a2_be2e_2cb718490aa9-------)

[[![Satoshi
Baggins](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*gr61ene0zcqzuMKdRkvGbg.jpeg)](/@satoshibaggins?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------d6b0890d_82ef_47a2_be2e_2cb718490aa9-------)

[Satoshi Baggins

](/@satoshibaggins?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
d6b0890d_82ef_47a2_be2e_2cb718490aa9-------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------d6b0890d_82ef_47a2_be2e_2cb718490aa9-------)

## PART 6: Bitcoin and The Regression Theorem

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*vZWFcI-n5id4EUPJcyW6DA.png)](/coinmonks/bitcoin-
and-the-regression-theorem-2d290167ccf1?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------d6b0890d_82ef_47a2_be2e_2cb718490aa9-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

