[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ 中文 ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [events](../../../blog/events)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Oct 22, 2020  

## How Filecoin Supports Video Storage

Since its inception, Filecoin’s mission has been to store the world’s most
valuable information. Today, video is a prominent source of communication and
content on the web. And nearly every new device is equipped with a camera,
making it easier than ever to capture and document the world around us. So it
makes sense that a host of new tools and services are being built with
Filecoin to store video data.

Today, 80% of internet bandwidth is consumed by video streaming, according to
Livepeer CEO Doug Petkanics. [Livepeer](https://livepeer.org/) is a
decentralized live-video streaming infrastructure, secured by the Ethereum
blockchain. When combined with Filecoin and IPFS for storage and content
delivery, decentralized video applications now become possible.

In a Web 2.0 world, streaming and storing video data is expensive. Livepeer
estimates that most companies pay about $3 per stream per hour to centralized
cloud services, on top of the cost of media servers and bandwidth for a
content delivery network. As a result, some video streaming companies today
end up folding or selling data to advertisers to make ends meet.

“Video is a growing medium for communication, especially in a socially
distanced world,” Petkanics said. “When you have a low-cost, reliable
infrastructure like Livepeer and Filecoin you’ll start to see vertical-
specific streaming platforms that allow creators to have better relationships
with their economics and their audience, models that aren’t subject to the ad-
centric business model of Web 2.0.”

Today at Liftoff Week, Livepeer will debut [file.video](https://file.video/),
a new way to upload and share videos. This application serves as both a useful
tool that can be used today to share videos, and as an open-source template
for any developer looking to build a web3 video application.

Livepeer focuses on live streaming, rather than on video-on-demand. Petkanics
said he’s been pleased to see the open-source community building on the
Livepeer protocol. One example is [BUIDL Labs](https://github.com/buidl-labs),
which was able to leverage Livepeer’s transcoding infrastructure and Filecoin
storage to create a video-on-demand product like YouTube.

Another team building on top of Livepeer is [Voodfy](http://beta.voodfy.com/).
Developed by Leandro Barbosa, Voodfy is building decentralized tools for
private video hosting. It’s an all-in-one secure streaming solution that gives
users complete control of their content – including who can access it and how
it’s monetized. And it uses Livepeer, Textile Powergate, and Filecoin for cold
storage of videos.

“Many companies and individuals use online videos as a strategy to share their
knowledge, wanting to monetize them without having a lot of effort with
complex video infrastructure,” said Barbosa. “They want a robust solution to
do it in a safe, simple, and reliable way, with protection against piracy. And
they want to be able to offer high-quality video content with the most optimal
viewing experience for their users, reaching them whatever they are.”

Barbosa’s vision for web3 is one that is open, free, and independent. “The
first moment that I read the slogan at Filecoin, I loved the project and the
philosophy to end centralization and return the data to people.”

**Learn more about Livepeer, Voodfy, and Filecoin for video storage when Doug
Petkanics and Leandro Barbosa take the stage today at 3:05 PM PDT as part of
Filecoin Liftoff Week.** [**Sign up
here**](https://protocol.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_T7xJWZIoRc-S_eKvgZ9mqQ)
**to join the session**. And check out the full [Liftoff
schedule](https://liftoff.filecoin.io/) to learn more about the Filecoin
ecosystem and how you can get involved.

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You’ve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

