[ ![The Integral](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/04/dydx-
logo-white-1.svg) ](https://integral.dydx.exchange)

  * [ ![The Integral](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/04/dydx-logo-white-1.svg) ](https://integral.dydx.exchange)
  * ### Categories

[

###

Open Finance ](/tag/open-finance/)

[

###

Derivatives ](/tag/derivatives/)

[

###

Macroeconomics ](/tag/macroeconomics/)

[

###

dYdX Announcements ](/tag/dydx-announcements/)

[

###

Educational ](/tag/educational/)

[Trade](https://trade.dydx.exchange)

# How DeFi is Eating Traditional Finance

[Educational](https://integral.dydx.exchange/tag/educational/) • Sep 3, 2020

[
](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://integral.dydx.exchange/eating-
traditional-finance/&title=How%20DeFi%20is%20Eating%20Traditional%20Finance) [
](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=How%20DeFi%20is%20Eating%20Traditional%20Finance&url=https://integral.dydx.exchange/eating-
traditional-finance/)

_This article was originally posted on _[The Pomp
Letter](https://pomp.substack.com/p/how-defi-is-eating-traditional-
finance?token=eyJ1c2VyX2lkIjoxNDA5NTAwMiwicG9zdF9pZCI6OTI5NDY0LCJfIjoiNnFJc0oiLCJpYXQiOjE1OTkwNTM5MTcsImV4cCI6MTU5OTA1NzUxNywiaXNzIjoicHViLTEzODMiLCJzdWIiOiJwb3N0LXJlYWN0aW9uIn0.tKCllgSiw8l22mXCyIz3uzzJn7eKetcSFYPu8PrUMfw)__

With the introduction of Bitcoin’s genesis block, the world had its first
truly decentralized financial application. Bitcoin enabled anyone in the world
to store wealth without the need for a centralized party. That wealth could be
taken and sent anywhere in the world, the only requirement was an internet
connection. As the Bitcoin network grew in terms of number of holders and
value transferred, developers began looking for ways to create more complex
financial transactions. This was at odds with how the Bitcoin community viewed
the tradeoffs between security and expressive financial applications, which
created an unmet opportunity for a blockchain that could facilitate more
complex financial contracts.

When Ethereum launched, it aspired to be a world computer capable of powering
an arbitrary number of applications through smart contracts. The ICO mania of
2017 reflected this vision, but Ethereum as a platform ultimately left much to
be desired for most applications. Amidst all the noise, it became increasingly
obvious that Ethereum was fertile ground for financial application
experimentation. Ethereum drastically dropped the costs associated with a
variety of financial transactions including capital formation, asset issuance
(hence the ICO bubble), asset exchange, loan administration, collateral
management, and much more. After the rubble of 2017 cleared, the Ethereum
community was left with a burgeoning movement dubbed, “DeFi” (short for
decentralized finance).

DeFi had immense promise given both how inefficient traditional finance was
and how well its aims aligned with the core ethos of the crypto community.
Ethereum’s smart contracts enabled money to be managed programmatically,
without the need of a central party, which in turn created many efficiency
gains. Similarly, DeFi applications were open and permissionless. Just like
Bitcoin, anyone could access them, all they needed was an internet connection.

Compare this to the traditional financial system and it’s easy to see how much
more desirable DeFi is. In the traditional world, financial applications are
difficult to access, rigid, hard to use, and most importantly, expensive.

 **Early Signs of Product Market Fit**  
Shortly after the Ethereum community rallied around DeFi and allocated
engineering resources towards building out infrastructure, early signs of
traction emerged. In these early days, the most promising developments were
DeFi primitives: building blocks that could be built on top of each other to
create more expressive applications. The composability of these primitives
help create strong network effects, where the value of products and services
grow as the number of DeFi users increases.

The first use case to see large growth was stablecoins. Stablecoins are
simple, they are assets designed to keep a peg to another asset, which in the
case of the most popular stablecoins, is the dollar. With stablecoins, anyone
can transact in dollars, globally, and with no delays. Stablecoins seem
rudimentary on the surface, but being able to send dollars freely within the
crypto ecosystem has always been difficult — the fiat world and the crypto
world aren’t very interoperable.

Stablecoins really started to see growth when new primitives came to market.
The ability to exchange stablecoins for crypto through decentralized exchanges
such as dYdX, 0x, and Kyber or the ability to borrow and lend stablecoins
through platforms like dYdX and Compound, made stablecoins that much more
powerful. Users could remain on-chain for a lot of their banking needs.

We can see clearly that stablecoin issuance really took off in late 2018,
right as many of DeFi’s first primitives came to market. The amount of USDT
tokenized on Ethereum has grown to over $6 billion USD from virtually 0. USDC
has also seen astronomic growth, growing to over $1 billion market cap in less
than two years.

![](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/09/CoinMetrics.png)

Decentralized exchange was another primitive that took off in 2019. With
decentralized exchanges, smart contracts handle all parts of the exchange
process — they verify that each holder owns the assets, that they approved the
transfer, and once those are satisfied, the contracts atomically swap assets
between the two counterparties. Again, it seems simple, but the traditional
exchange process can be costly and exposes users to a lot of counterparty
risk. As we have seen time and time again, exchanges can go down with all of
their customers’ crypto.

Automated market makers took the decentralized exchange concept one step
further by removing the need for a centralized market maker to quote both
sides of the book. There are many reasons AMMs have been a breakthrough model
for decentralized exchanges. First, it’s extremely costly for token projects
to engage market makers – the deals are very one-sided and concentrate too
much influence in the market maker’s hands. Second, it’s expensive for market
makers to provide liquidity on decentralized exchanges given the latency and
cost of on-chain transactions. Through AMMs, projects can have liquidity from
day one, making it much easier to bootstrap communities and networks.

The last DeFi primitive worth mentioning is borrow and lend markets, more
specifically, borrowing and lending directly from a smart contract. These
systems allow anyone with idle assets to deposit them into a shared lending
pool and anyone who wants to borrow assets to draw down from this pool in
exchange for interest. Developers have been able to build powerful products by
building a top these lending markets. For example, dYdX’s lending markets
power a global margin trading system — the ability for traders to earn
interest helps bring more liquidity to the platform.

### Where is DeFi Going?

DeFi has just started to scratch the surface in terms of decentralizing the
most important pillars of traditional finance. 2020 has been a watershed year
for DeFi — the primitives noted above are being leveraged to create both
products that rival traditional solutions as well as net new products that
aren’t available in today’s system.

The recent liquidity mining boom is actually an interesting play on yield
generation. While most of the yields are a function of inflation rather than
actual interest or cash flow, it’s being offered at a time where most
traditional banks are offering savings rates close to 0%. Because of this,
we’re seeing a massive influx of capital into the ecosystem. Even if it’s
short term, this new capital helps fuel experimentation until something of
value is found. Similarly, these protocols have intrinsic value via their cash
flows. So even if the yields will collapse over time, they still have a floor
that’s much larger than anything offered in the traditional banking system.

![](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/09/DeFi-TVL.png)

Decentralized exchange is also a vertical that will continue to grow in the
short to medium term, and we expect them to surpass most centralized exchanges
in the next few years. Already today, there have been numerous days in which
trading on Uniswap has surpassed the trading on Gemini, Kraken, and even
Coinbase. Developments like liquidity mining will boost the liquidity offered
on decentralized exchanges to the point where traders will be able to exchange
at a cheaper rate than they do on centralized exchanges, and without kyc.
Additionally, decentralized exchanges are still in their v1.0 modes. At dYdX,
we’ve worked hard to build margin trading and the very first synthetic BTC
perpetual swap, all on-chain so users never have to give up custody of their
funds. In the next few months, we will also be[ launching our Layer 2 solution
with Starkware](https://integral.dydx.exchange/scaling-with-starkware/), which
will greatly reduce costs, increase throughput, and enable more trading pairs
as well as the ability to cross-margin on our perpetual markets.

![](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/09/Dune.png)

Another area in which decentralized finance is subverting its centralized
counterparts is lending. On-chain lending was always criticized for not being
able to administer undercollateralized loans given the lack of legal recourse
and identity, but this might change soon thanks to lending protocol Aave’s new
credit delegation design. Through their system, token holders will be able to
stake their assets behind the credit reputation of another address (tying to a
user), enabling that address to borrow funds without overcollateralizing the
loan. If that user doesn’t repay the loan, it is their staker that is
punished, meaning token holders are incentivized to act in a way that doesn’t
hurt them, in effect helping ensure only creditworthy borrowers are able to
take out uncollateralized loans.

Lastly, the DeFi ecosystem has birthed its own insurance offerings, allowing
users to buy protection against smart contract risk. One of the biggest
barriers to adoption in the early days of DeFi was the lack of insurance. No
traditional insurer would enter the space so ecosystem participants built
their own solutions. Through protocols like Nexus Mutual and Opyn, DeFi users
can secure their deposits without the need of a traditional bank or
institution.

All of the innovation happening in the DeFi ecosystem is affirming the fact
that decentralized finance can create financial applications that are more
desirable than those that exist in the traditional world. We’re already seeing
some DeFi projects overtake parts of the centralized crypto economy and it
won’t be long until this activity starts to overtake the traditional world.
There’s never been more of a need for a financial system that’s more fair,
open, and efficient. At dYdX, we couldn’t think of a more exciting mission to
build towards.

## About dYdX

We are working on launching additional Perpetual Contracts in the future, with
the goal of making dYdX the go-to platform for trading a variety of
cryptoassets across Spot, Margin, and Perpetuals. We are also actively
building a [Layer 2 solution](https://integral.dydx.exchange/scaling-with-
starkware/) with StarkWare to be able to offer an even better experience for
our traders.

If you’d like to get started with trading on our platform or have any other
questions, please join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/y6KsCsr) and follow us
on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/dydxprotocol).

[Trade](https://trade.dydx.exchange/perpetual/ETH-USD?trk-origin=Integral) the
ETH Perpetual now →

#### Subscribe to our newsletter

Get the latest posts delivered right to your inbox.

Your email address Subscribe

![Success!](https://integral.dydx.exchange/assets/images/success.png?v=c7f248bd02)

Now check your inbox and click the link to confirm your subscription.

Please enter a valid email address

Oops! There was an error sending the email, please try later.

[ ](https://integral.dydx.exchange/author/dydx/)

####  [dYdX Exchange](https://integral.dydx.exchange/author/dydx/)

dYdX is a decentralized exchange that supports spot, margin, and perpetuals
trading. The Integral is a blog covering Open Finance, Crypto Markets,
Bitcoin, Crypto Derivatives and dYdX Announcements.

No results for your search, please try with something else.

The Integral (C) 2022   •   Published with [Ghost](https://ghost.org)

[ ](https://t.me/joinchat/GBnMlBb9mQblQck2pThTgw) [
](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dydx/) [
](https://twitter.com/dydxprotocol)

[JavaScript license
information](https://integral.dydx.exchange/assets/html/javascript.html?v=c7f248bd02)

Great! You've successfully subscribed.

Great! Next, complete checkout for full access.

Welcome back! You've successfully signed in.

Success! Your account is fully activated, you now have access to all content.

