![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/how-to-protect-students-privacy-online-from-vr-to-vpns/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/how-to-protect-students-privacy-online-from-vr-to-vpns/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/how-to-protect-students-privacy-online-from-vr-to-vpns/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/how-to-protect-students-privacy-online-from-vr-to-vpns/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/how-to-protect-students-privacy-online-from-vr-to-vpns/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/how-to-protect-students-privacy-online-from-vr-to-vpns/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![How to protect students’ privacy online, from VR to
VPNs](/static/fd61a7bbd1265d5c2a5a9d859d5c11e4/Orchid_BlogImage_BTSchool.png)

# How to protect students’ privacy online, from VR to VPNs

Sep 11, 2020  
  

As the traditional back-to-school season gets underway in much of the world,
unprecedented challenges, and opportunities, are emerging. For the first time
ever, the new school year confronts many students and parents with the
prospect of the new school year taking place partly, or even entirely,
remotely. Indeed, reopening schools has been one of the most charged issues to
arise out of the still-unfolding global coronavirus pandemic. Overwhelmed
parents, frightened teachers, and agonized public officials are all struggling
to determine the best way forward.

What the autumn looks like will depend very much on where a person lives. Some
jurisdictions are [going ahead with full
reopening](https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/education/florida-coronavirus-
schools/2020/08/14/a37b39a8-dd99-11ea-b205-ff838e15a9a6_story.html) while
others vow to [continue virtual learning](https://edsource.org/2020/schools-
in-los-angeles-san-diego-wont-reopen-for-in-person-learning-next-month/635924)
for now. Many are somewhere in between, or have yet to make a decision. No
matter what happens, there will be tradeoffs involved, and calculated risks
will need to be taken. But what is certain is that many of the world's
children will continue to receive at least part of their education virtually
this semester -- a prospect that invites new opportunities as well as new
dangers.

**Remote learning brings privacy risks**

The [human burden](https://nypost.com/2020/03/29/remote-learning-is-turning-
out-to-be-a-burden-for-parents/) placed on parents and caregivers when the
kids are home all day is by now well known. But what may be less apparent are
the real risks that children face as they learn remotely, via video
conferencing and messaging apps, as well as growing inventories of "peripheral
devices," all connected via often-unsecured personal wifi networks. While
remote learning has opened up tantalizing new possibilities for reimagining
education, it's important to understand the dangers these opportunities bring.

It goes without saying that good privacy habits should be maintained while
students are learning remotely. Many of these best practices apply to any
online activity, while some are specific to the educational context. At its
most basic, remote learning opens students up to the same risks that are
inherent in any online collaboration. The security of the video apps used to
conduct lessons and check-ins with students is a prime concern -- the risks
and vulnerabilities of tools like Zoom [have been widely
publicized](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2020/apr/08/zoom-privacy-
video-chat-
alternatives#:~:text=Cons%3A%20Zoom%20has%20had%20some,over%20a%20Zoom%20user's%20Mac.).
They take on an even greater urgency when the subject is our children.

That's why it's crucial that parents make sure students always practice good
privacy. Good habits include ensuring the camera is off when a video app is
not in use; making sure wifi networks are password-protected; and
communicating via encrypted messaging apps where possible. To achieve a much
stronger level of privacy, students should consider an Internet privacy tool
such as a VPN. By combining the best privacy innovations with unique
incentives for bandwidth providers, Orchid's decentralized VPN marketplace is
able to offer people strong online privacy, and provide fast speeds and
download times.

You can read Orchid's full guide on maintaining privacy remotely to pick up
more tips [here](/tips-for-protecting-your-privacy-while-working-from-home/).

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

**Peripheral devices introduce new possibilities, and new dangers**

But it's not just video conferencing and messaging that raise challenges for
privacy in the context of remote learning. Increasingly, educators are making
use not just of laptops but of many so-called peripheral devices -- tablets,
smartphones, VR headsets. These tools open up possibilities for learning that
did not exist just a few years ago. Students can now go on [virtual reality
field trips](https://www.weareteachers.com/best-virtual-field-trips/) using VR
headsets -- allowing them to canoe the Amazon, see famous works of art, or
visit foreign countries all without leaving home.

But the introduction of these new devices also raises new privacy concerns.
Each machine contains a whole universe of software and firmware that is
vulnerable to hacking -- especially if connected to an poorly secured home
wifi network. If a hacker finds a vulnerability in the firmware of a VR
headset, not only can they compromise that specific device, but they can back-
door into anything else connected to the same network. This puts all devices,
including parents' work computers and personal communications, digital
assistants, and home cameras at risk of being compromised.

In order to mitigate this danger, it's vital to keep devices' software and
firmware constantly updated. Keep network passwords clear, and don't use the
same password for multiple devices or accounts. Finally, always make sure to
turn off devices that are not in use. By following these privacy guidelines,
parents and children can greatly strengthen their privacy.

**With privacy and greater access, an educational renaissance is possible**

Of course, for remote learning to present privacy challenges in the first
place, students must have access to the tablets and VR headsets that create
them. And not enough do: many households have several children sharing a
single computer, and there is currently a [shortage of
laptops](https://www.wsj.com/articles/laptop-shortage-hits-u-s-schools-as-
thousands-face-online-learning-without-device-11598434201) in the U.S -- to
say nothing of tablets and headsets. So the first hurdle is getting all kids
fully online so that they can learn and reach their potential. Once that is
achieved, with the right privacy safeguards in place, a renaissance in
learning can take place, driven in part by the new possibilities of remote and
virtual learning.

Orchid is committed to the vision of a free and open Internet. Key to that
vision is giving people the tools, and the safety, to stay curious and to
learn about new things. Orchid is partnered with some of the leading VPN
providers, including [LiquidVPN](/orchid-partners-with-liquidvpn/),
[PIA](/pia-bringing-trusted-private-bandwidth-to-orchid-users/),
[Tenta](https://tenta.com/), [Boleh](https://www.bolehvpn.net/), and
[VPNSecure](/orchid-partners-with-vpnsecure/), and lets people configure
multiple "[hops](/what-is-a-hop/)" between them for added security. And our
system of [probabilistic nanopayments](/introducing-nanopayments/) is designed
to ensure there is always ample bandwidth to facilitate quick speeds and
download times.

We have the tools to make learning a more dynamic, interactive, tailored
experience than it has ever been before. Students can learn at their own
speed, in their own homes. They can take field trips to geological wonders and
ancient monuments without leaving their rooms. But in order for students to
truly flourish with these technological capabilities, privacy must be in the
foreground. Fortunately, we have the technology to provide students with the
strongest level of online privacy currently available. By following a few core
best practices today, and using privacy solutions like Orchid, we can help
ensure our children are protected as they move forward into this brave new
world of distance learning.

[Download the Orchid app](https://www.orchid.com/download) today for iOS,
MacOS, and Android.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)
  * [VPN](/tag/vpn/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22How%20to%20protect%20students%E2%80%99%20privacy%20online%2C%20from%20VR%20to%20VPNs%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fhow-
to-protect-students-privacy-online-from-vr-to-vpns%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fhow-
to-protect-students-privacy-online-from-vr-to-vpns%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fhow-
to-protect-students-privacy-online-from-vr-to-vpns%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/what-does-a-vpn-hide/)

#### What does a VPN hide?

](/what-does-a-vpn-hide/)

Apr 15, 2021

](/what-is-split-tunneling/)

[

#### What is split tunneling?

](/what-is-split-tunneling/)

May 3, 2021

](/why-ordinary-people-are-turning-to-vpns/)

[

#### Why Ordinary People Are Turning to VPNs

](/why-ordinary-people-are-turning-to-vpns/)

Jul 14, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

