[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/df81abc61ec9&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Crypto
Punks](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*RuBSr8PcbcSSimYWrpQsHA.png)](https://medium.com/crypto-
punks?source=post_page-----df81abc61ec9--------------------------------)

Published in

[Crypto Punks

](https://medium.com/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
df81abc61ec9--------------------------------)

[![Sam
Aiken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/0*KLR9G_nzD3rK1p1w.jpg)](/@SamAI_Software?source=post_page
-----df81abc61ec9--------------------------------)

[Sam Aiken](/@SamAI_Software?source=post_page-----
df81abc61ec9--------------------------------)

Follow

Dec 29, 2019

·

10 min read

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*PbyOsdgIqevtDMRw-V4UxQ.jpeg)

Source: [Austin Distel](https://unsplash.com/photos/EMPZ7yRZoGw)

# How to choose the core holdings of a crypto portfolio

## The most common mistakes investors make when building core holdings of a
crypto portfolio is buying too many cryptocurrencies or investing only in one
crypto project.

 **This article is a part of “How to onboard your folks to crypto” series:**

  1. [The modern financial system from gold to petroyuan & de-dollarization](/crypto-punks/how-to-onboard-your-folks-to-crypto-1-from-gold-to-petroyuan-de-dollarization-a3dc29201210)
  2. [Debunking misconceptions about crypto deflation](/crypto-punks/crypto-economics-debunking-misconceptions-about-deflation-bd8c020ed21d)
  3. [How not to lose your money when entering a crypto market](/crypto-punks/how-not-to-lose-your-money-when-entering-a-crypto-market-8b95b68d1b76)
  4. How to choose the core holdings of a crypto portfolio (current)
  5. [Satellite holdings and rebalancing of a crypto portfolio](/crypto-punks/how-to-structure-the-satellite-holdings-and-rebalance-a-crypto-portfolio-fc18f3c0516b)

 _Disclosure: some links in this article are referral links. I also own BTC,
ETH, BCH, XMR, XRP, TRX, and all other coins mentioned in the article, but my
portfolio is heavily diversified, so I don’t have financial incentives to
shill for any particular coin. This article is brought to you by a privacy-
oriented peer-to-peer marketplace_[ **
_LocalCryptos_**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra) _._

# Intro

In the previous articles we’ve discussed how the [modern financial
system](/crypto-punks/how-to-onboard-your-folks-to-crypto-1-from-gold-to-
petroyuan-de-dollarization-a3dc29201210) evolved from commodity money to
unbacked fiat money that constantly loses its value, we’ve debunked
[misconceptions about deflation](/crypto-punks/crypto-economics-debunking-
misconceptions-about-deflation-bd8c020ed21d), and talked about the [most
common mistakes](/crypto-punks/how-not-to-lose-your-money-when-entering-a-
crypto-market-8b95b68d1b76) that amateur investors make when entering a crypto
market.

The purpose of this article is to teach amateur investors how to reduce their
risks by picking the right cryptocurrencies for the diversification of the
core holdings of a long-term crypto portfolio. In the [next article](/crypto-
punks/how-to-structure-the-satellite-holdings-and-rebalance-a-crypto-
portfolio-fc18f3c0516b) we will focus on satellite holdings, aggressive
investments, portfolio rebalancing, and effective ways to follow the crypto
news.

# What crypto assets to buy?

Here are the most common mistakes amateur investors make when building a
crypto portfolio:

  * Invest most money into some new trendy project
  * Invest too much into non-major cryptos
  * Hold only bitcoin (BTC)

Buying lots of new tokens during an ICO or after a first listing on an
exchange can be very lucrative, but it’s also extremely risky and doesn’t suit
amateur investors. We can definitely allocate a small portion of our crypto
portfolio for aggressive investments, especially during a bull market, but
core holdings should consist of less risky cryptos like bitcoin (BTC),
ethereum (ETH), etc.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*usJdqyuVZrEfPFsBX8U4tg.png)

Bitcoin dominance plummeted during a bull market of 2017. Source:
[coinmarketcap](https://coinmarketcap.com/charts/#dominance-percentage)

Bitcoin’s dominance refers to the percentage bitcoin has of the market
capitalization of all other cryptocurrencies. Bitcoin is the most liquid
crypto, so its price is more stable comparative to other tokens. As a result,
altcoins outperform bitcoin during a bull market, but they also crash harder
during a bear market, because they cannot handle a selling pressure as good as
BTC.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*esLDTsk6CLSPUfeGKW6HAQ.jpeg)

Bitcoin dominance skyrocketed during a bear market of 2018–2019. Source:
[coinmarketcap](https://coinmarketcap.com/charts/#dominance-percentage)

Bitcoin maximalists often suggest people to invest only in BTC, so let’s make
it clear that bitcoin is indeed the safest crypto, and it’s a good suggestion
to hold some BTC. However, investing only in BTC posses certain risks, because
the project heavily relies on one scaling solution. There is nothing wrong in
holding only BTC if you’re a tech-savvy bitcoin maximalist, but amateur
investors don’t have enough knowledge to evaluate all the risks and make
informed decisions. Full diversification and dollar-cost averaging is the only
way for amateur investors to minimize risks.

So what cryptos amateur investors should hold?

## Core holdings

> Past performance is not an indicator for future performance.

The core holdings of a crypto portfolio should consist of well-established
coins with strong fundamentals and proven industry support. This will be the
most stable part that can survive even a long bear market. For example, the
strongest IT companies (eBay, Amazon) survived the dot-com bubble and later
surpassed their stock price peaks during the bubble.

The exact coins can vary depending on political views and risk preferences of
an investor, but the most common examples are:

  * Bitcoin (BTC)
  * Ethereum (ETH)
  * Bitcoin Cash (BCH)
  * XRP (XRP)
  * Monero (XMR)

Just to make it clear, I don’t encourage you to buy any of these cryptos, but
I do encourage you to research these projects. Some of these cryptos are a
part of my core holdings as well (but not all of them).

If you didn’t follow cryptocurrencies before, then you will quickly find out
that none of the cryptos above has any future, because according to critics:

  * “Bitcoin is controlled by bankers”
  * “Ether won’t have any value even if Ethereum Network will be widely used”
  * “Bitcoin Cash is a centralized coin”
  * “XRP is not a cryptocurrency”
  * “Monero cannot scale”

Yes, this is the beauty of a crypto space. It’s a full democracy in the
action. Everybody who disagrees with the established narrative can fork off
and create a new coin with blackjack and hookers, which sometimes leads to
lots of drama. The diversity of different approaches to solve common problems
and high decentralization is the key to cryptocurrencies’ resilience.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*argGxGMtWZaVnWWXiyOe2g.jpeg)

This article is brought to you by a privacy-oriented peer-to-peer self-
custodial end-to-end encrypted marketplace
[**LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra), where you can buy &
sell cryptocurrencies for fiat money. To start trading, create a new password-
protected account or log in with your [**favorite
wallet**](https://blog.localcryptos.com/localethereum-integrates-with-
wallets/?ref=eimahra) such as Ledger, MetaMask, or mobile apps like imToken.

## Basic research

OK, but how can an amateur investor navigate in all this drama and find solid
projects without spending hundreds of hours on the research? Since core
holdings consist of well-established projects, you can find them by looking at
the top cryptos by the market cap.

Let’s look at the 5 years time period and compare prices snapshots from
January 2015 to December 2019.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1120/1*6lt5Oo0gvzYWZixFocAGhQ.png)

[January 04, 2015](https://coinmarketcap.com/historical/20150104/)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1050/1*jzpAReeITZUR-h1vUE0C5w.jpeg)

[December 8, 2019](https://coinmarketcap.com/historical/20191208/) (5 years
later)

As we can see, most of the top cryptos by the market cap from 2015 were still
in the top after 5 years, so we can assume that they are relatively stable
crypto assets, despite a daily volatility.

Bitcoin (BTC) safeguarded the largest market cap, but ETH and XRP showed
higher gains even after a long bear market of 2018–2019:

  1. Ethereum (ETH) +15,867%
  2. XRP (XRP) +3,806%
  3. Bitcoin (BTC) +1,753%
  4. Dash (DASH) +1,606%
  5. Litecoin (LTC) +1,316%

However, some newer cryptos can occasionally jump into the top due to hype and
FOMO, so here is a short-list of other metrics that everybody can easily check
apart from the market cap:

  1. Reddit (an amount of subscribers, a date of creation, a daily activity)
  2. GitHub (stars, forks, contributors, issues, pull requests)
  3. Daily transactions and active addresses

Here is an example. At the time of writing, TRON (TRX) and Monero (XMR) had a
similar market cap with TRON being a bit higher in the rating.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1100/1*3gWxPiqF31S5n6aeiPRz-Q.jpeg)

Source: [CoinLore](https://www.coinlore.com/)

An amateur investor can assume that both projects carry the same degree of
investment risk. However, once we compare some basic stats, we see another
picture.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1282/1*s3CEMWo67AjyKcqbPL8vLQ.jpeg)

First of all, Monero subreddit has been created 3 years earlier and it has
twice more subscribers. Keep in mind though that the number of members can be
manipulated with bots, so let’s look at the actual activity on the subreddit.
At r/Monero we can see meaningful posts with many comments and upvotes like a
call to use [smaller mining
pools](https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/e95cgz/psa_stop_mining_on_minexmr_and_supportxmr/)
for higher decentralization.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*18HEzESAUejB53hDDcUtdw.jpeg)

Source: [r/Monero](https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/)
([archive](http://archive.is/1fLLZ))

While TRON’s subreddit doesn’t have much activity and the front page is full
of short [educational
videos](https://www.reddit.com/r/Tronix/comments/e94px2/tronclass_lesson_114_what_are_offchain/)
with low engagement. These videos are posted by a moderator, so it looks more
like an attempt to artificially create an illusion of some activity.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*LWk-K1JMc3wf_PaXhKraUw.jpeg)

Source: [r/Tronix](https://www.reddit.com/r/tronix)
([archive](http://archive.is/KFTVq))

Next we can look at GitHub repositories of each project and see that Monero
has more stars, forks, contributors, open issues and pull requests.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*Z82IEThL7X7LyjnOhP9fJQ.png)

Source: [monero](https://github.com/monero-project/monero)
([archive](http://archive.is/8tUuy)) vs.
[tron](https://github.com/tronprotocol/java-tron)
([achive](http://archive.is/EcXHl))

Of course, stars and forks can be manipulated with bots, while a high number
of open issues/pull requests might mean that Monero devs are very slow at
resolving them. However, when we take a closer look, we see that Monero
project has much more submitted pull requests and opened issues in general.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*YEeVHDGNHfODW0kvJJUEQg.png)

Source: [monero](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pulls) vs.
[tron](https://github.com/tronprotocol/java-tron/pulls)

There is an interesting tool [coincodecap](https://coincodecap.com/coins) that
tracks GitHub activity of different crypto projects, and it also rates Monero
higher than TRON, even though some metrics of TRON project are actually
higher.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*sG0eeUrvxW1PuaQVGSEXew.jpeg)

Source: [coincodecap](https://coincodecap.com/coins)

Ask we can see, either Monero has a bigger and more active community, or TRON
community uses other platforms for the communication, e.g. Chinese social
media apps like Weibo, WeChat, QQ. Keep in mind though that Chinese apps can
ban crypto projects at any time and that’s exactly what happened with a [Weibo
account](https://twitter.com/DoveyWan/status/1205131643071021057) of TRON’s
founder.

Another important and easily accessible data is daily transactions and daily
active addresses. [BitInfoCharts](https://bitinfocharts.com/) is a great tool
to compare different cryptos.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*Ktvz7tRFY5FNzgAs0zBLJg.jpeg)

Source: [bitinfocharts](https://bitinfocharts.com/)

Unfortunately, TRON is not among 40+ cryptos listed on the website, but we can
find TRON’s network data at [tronscan](https://tronscan.org/). Surprisingly,
the number of daily transactions is very high comparative to other major
cryptos, which is usually a good sign.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1200/1*3VbuQZKlWWWkaEifZAW0lw.jpeg)

Source: [tronscan](https://tronscan.org)

However, this data can be manipulated with SPAM-transactions, especially when
transaction fees are very low, so be cautious.

Obviously, this was a very simple quantitative analysis without looking into
the details, but this kind of research doesn’t require any technical knowledge
and can be performed by any amateur investor. Within just 15 minutes we’ve
found out that TRON project is too new and risky for the core holdings of our
portfolio.

## Can we still hold TRON tokens?

Well, after having a quick look at wikipedia pages or coin tracking websites
like [coinlib](https://coinlib.io) or [coinlore](https://www.coinlore.com/),
we can discover that Monero and TRON projects have very different goals. While
Monero is highly focused on privacy, TRON is a developer platform, which
should be compared with projects like Ethereum and EOS, but that requires more
skills and knowledge than ordinary people have, so we can make decision based
only on the metrics that we have.

Of course, we still can hold some TRON tokens, but we should allocate them to
a more risky portion of crypto holdings, which implies a much higher level of
diversification with other cryptocurrencies like EOS, NEO, ADA, IOTA, BNB,
XLM, etc.

You won’t buy stocks without any research, right? The same logic applies to
cryptocurrencies. If your goal is to invest some money into cryptos for the
diversification purpose, then I’d encourage you to do at least a quick
research about each crypto asset that you’re planning to hold.

# Conclusion

Now you have a better understanding of how to build core holdings of a crypto
portfolio, and how to do a basic research that doesn’t require any high-tech
knowledge.

If you’re new to a crypto market, then make sure to read the [previous
article](/crypto-punks/how-not-to-lose-your-money-when-entering-a-crypto-
market-8b95b68d1b76) where we’ve discussed in details how to buy cryptos using
privacy-oriented platforms, when exactly to buy, and how to store cryptos.

[

## How not to lose your money when entering a crypto market

### I’ve lost money in flash crashes and during a bear market. I’ve learnt it
the hard way, but I’ve learnt it. Here’s what…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/how-not-to-lose-your-money-when-entering-a-crypto-
market-8b95b68d1b76)

In the [next article](/crypto-punks/how-to-structure-the-satellite-holdings-
and-rebalance-a-crypto-portfolio-fc18f3c0516b) of this series we will talk
about further diversification with satellite holdings, which are the more
risky part of a crypto portfolio.

If you want to support more candid articles about crypto, privacy, and
security, then please **share this article** ,
[**retweet**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software/status/1211280203869282305),
[**donate crypto**](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-
activism#donate), or simply sign up at
[**LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra) **** with this
referral link.

 _Disclaimer: I am not a licensed financial advisor, and this article is not a
financial advice. The information presented here is for educational purpose
only, it represents my personal opinion, and is not purported to be fact.
Cryptocurrencies are very volatile and can move quickly in any direction. I’m
not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or
alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any
content, goods, services or companies mentioned in this article. Seek a duly
licensed professional for an investment advice._

If you’re highly concerned about privacy & security, then you should read how
Hong Kong activists [avoid an internet surveillance](/crypto-punks/digital-
resistance-security-privacy-tips-from-hong-kong-protesters-37ff9ef73129).

[

## Digital resistance: security & privacy tips from Hong Kong protesters

### Full digital gear: Telegram, Protonmail, AirDrop, FireChat, Bridgefy,
PrivateBin, Fingertrapp, What3Words, Tor, VPN…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/digital-resistance-security-privacy-tips-from-hong-kong-
protesters-37ff9ef73129)

If you’re an activist, then check out an open source project [**decentralized-
activism**](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-activism), which
shares the best practices from different decentralized movements across the
globe.

[

## SamAI-Software/decentralized-activism

### The purpose of this project is to raise global solidarity, unite people,
and exchange valuable knowledge and experience…

github.com

](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-activism)

  * Help inform people about cryptocurrencies by **clapping** 50 times 👏
  * I only write quality content about cryptocurrencies, blockchain, privacy, security, and Hong Kong. Follow me on [**medium**](/@SamAI_Software), [**twitter**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software), or [**mastodon**](https://mastodon.technology/@samai), and you won’t regret that.
  * Send me a direct message on [**twitter**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software) **** or [**linkedin**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/samaisoftware) if you want me to help improve your project, white paper, website, or sponsor my next articles.
  * Use the most secure, private and intuitive way to swap cryptos with others for your local currency — [**LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra).

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Crypto Punks](/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
df81abc61ec9--------------------------------)

Crypto revolution has begun

[Read more from Crypto Punks](/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
df81abc61ec9--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Yuday
Suherman](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*u84kpHWBKxMNu4fgxu67Kw.png)](/@yud4ygi4tz?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Yuday Suherman

](/@yud4ygi4tz?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## ICO Betstreak will be open soon!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*YC6WX6E2iRcr1U82.png)](/@yud4ygi4tz/ico-
betstreak-will-be-open-soon-bbdd009e850f?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Election.Finance](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*eKmvmq4MKnW9iNWP5T4WJQ.jpeg)](/@electionfinance?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Election.Finance

](/@electionfinance?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Election Fi: Yield Farming Meets Politics 👨‍🌾⚖️

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*eKmvmq4MKnW9iNWP5T4WJQ.jpeg)](/@electionfinance/election-
fi-yield-farming-meets-politics-️-d870507e206d?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[[![cryptoAcademy](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*z6WM2rSrMqjZZMkcHDDGcQ.jpeg)](/@knowledgeiskey2017?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[cryptoAcademy

](/@knowledgeiskey2017?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## CRYPTOBUBBLE AND CRYPTO CULTISM

](/@knowledgeiskey2017/cryptobubble-and-crypto-
cultism-64f9dfd2323e?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Abdul](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*YvfeT0N5UueGXRRc)](/@abdul0x?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Abdul

](/@abdul0x?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

in

[ACryptoS

](https://medium.com/acryptos?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Partnership: Kalata Protocol x ACryptoS

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*P2vl_DuSqTVyMaEo30dZ6A.jpeg)](/acryptos/partnership-
kalata-protocol-x-acryptos-920a10df7035?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Adam
Prescott](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*7P6bgHn0lRzCWwYFKz3qlA.jpeg)](/@adamprescott?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Adam Prescott

](/@adamprescott?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

in

[This Crypto Life

](https://medium.com/this-crypto-life?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## It’s Ridiculously Easy to Stake Cardano (ADA) With Guarda Wallet

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*U4_RtkwRrj8udzH5NOgHnA.jpeg)](/this-
crypto-life/its-ridiculously-easy-to-stake-cardano-ada-with-guarda-wallet-
aa758952fc3a?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

[[![Jonathan Morgan](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*EyVaYlCXLKO-
pjN3.)](/@jonathan-morgan?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[Jonathan Morgan

](/@jonathan-morgan?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Luna (LUNA) Cryptocurrency Price Prediction, Forecast, Technical Analysis —
Nov 11th, 2021

](/@jonathan-morgan/luna-luna-cryptocurrency-price-prediction-forecast-
technical-analysis-nov-11th-2021-df747417c90e?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[[![Pinoy Clicker](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*hchRXG79Fu-
ULTr_.jpg)](/@pinoyclickerako?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[Pinoy Clicker

](/@pinoyclickerako?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Where do I get my news about Crypto?

](/@pinoyclickerako/where-do-i-get-my-news-about-
crypto-6164b9832ee?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Raphael
Keymer](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@raphael.keymer?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Raphael Keymer

](/@raphael.keymer?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

in

[TradeCloud

](https://medium.com/tradecloud?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Transferring TradeCloud Security Tokens

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*nUWsstsF5tjesA5ivUakDg.png)](/tradecloud/transferring-
tradecloud-security-tokens-f1890d639141?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----df81abc61ec9--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
df81abc61ec9--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
df81abc61ec9--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
df81abc61ec9--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
df81abc61ec9--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----df81abc61ec9--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----df81abc61ec9--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcrypto-
punks%2Fhow-to-choose-the-core-holdings-of-a-crypto-portfolio-
df81abc61ec9&source=post_page--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Sam
Aiken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/0*KLR9G_nzD3rK1p1w.jpg)](/@SamAI_Software)

[

## Sam Aiken

](/@SamAI_Software)

1.2K Followers

We are one big community

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F3cf7356baaf9&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcrypto-
punks%2Fhow-to-choose-the-core-holdings-of-a-crypto-portfolio-
df81abc61ec9&newsletterV3=39881a7541cc&newsletterV3Id=3cf7356baaf9&user=Sam+Aiken&userId=39881a7541cc&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Atish
Baboolal](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*bNXQKEnMTuPDE_7c)](/@atish-
baboolal?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
d8ae9a3d_4c8a_4db3_b630_07361e7ee3be-------)

[Atish Baboolal

](/@atish-baboolal?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
d8ae9a3d_4c8a_4db3_b630_07361e7ee3be-------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------d8ae9a3d_4c8a_4db3_b630_07361e7ee3be-------)

## Blockchain Beginnings: the story through the eyes of a beancounter

](/coinmonks/blockchain-beginnings-the-story-through-the-eyes-of-a-
beancounter-6c7ad8d5d694?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------d8ae9a3d_4c8a_4db3_b630_07361e7ee3be-------)

[[![Riccardo Ferrari
Bitcoin](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*hNBSUdHgf9-bloTA)](/@riccardoferraribitcoin?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------d8ae9a3d_4c8a_4db3_b630_07361e7ee3be-------)

[Riccardo Ferrari Bitcoin

](/@riccardoferraribitcoin?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------d8ae9a3d_4c8a_4db3_b630_07361e7ee3be-------)

## What Exactly Is Bitcoin, and How Does It Work? | Riccardo Ferrari

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*I2y9_Sk0oKPn02rHIncMpg.jpeg)](/@riccardoferraribitcoin/what-
exactly-is-bitcoin-and-how-does-it-work-riccardo-ferrari-
bd8d8d99ce5?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
d8ae9a3d_4c8a_4db3_b630_07361e7ee3be-------)

[[![Shinobi Wallet](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*0Uj9Dh723sVS-
Ty5_ANguw.png)](/@shinobiwallet?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------d8ae9a3d_4c8a_4db3_b630_07361e7ee3be-------)

[Shinobi Wallet

](/@shinobiwallet?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
d8ae9a3d_4c8a_4db3_b630_07361e7ee3be-------)

## Your guide to Bitcoin addresses and how to use them

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*p1G1ZoFtryv-nN-
_dcjrIw.png)](/@shinobiwallet/your-guide-to-bitcoin-addresses-and-how-to-use-
them-c933684c2ba9?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
d8ae9a3d_4c8a_4db3_b630_07361e7ee3be-------)

[[![Samy
Felice](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*wAtLC9AsWNcq91w97dB61A.jpeg)](/@samyfelice?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------d8ae9a3d_4c8a_4db3_b630_07361e7ee3be-------)

[Samy Felice

](/@samyfelice?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
d8ae9a3d_4c8a_4db3_b630_07361e7ee3be-------)

in

[BLOCK6

](https://medium.com/block6?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------d8ae9a3d_4c8a_4db3_b630_07361e7ee3be-------)

## The Hidden Benefits of Spending Your Bitcoin

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*rA3eVKhFmqKK_d5o)](/block6/the-
benefits-of-spending-your-bitcoin-48d8159e1b73?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------d8ae9a3d_4c8a_4db3_b630_07361e7ee3be-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

