[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/8b95b68d1b76&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Crypto
Punks](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*RuBSr8PcbcSSimYWrpQsHA.png)](https://medium.com/crypto-
punks?source=post_page-----8b95b68d1b76--------------------------------)

Published in

[Crypto Punks

](https://medium.com/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
8b95b68d1b76--------------------------------)

[![Sam
Aiken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/0*KLR9G_nzD3rK1p1w.jpg)](/@SamAI_Software?source=post_page
-----8b95b68d1b76--------------------------------)

[Sam Aiken](/@SamAI_Software?source=post_page-----
8b95b68d1b76--------------------------------)

Follow

Nov 30, 2019

·

11 min read

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*QS64FygSerlhmFXRt8i3kg.jpeg)

Image: [Chris Liverani](https://unsplash.com/photos/NDfqqq_7QWM)

# How not to lose your money when entering a crypto market

## I’ve lost money in flash crashes and during a bear market. I’ve learnt it
the hard way, but I’ve learnt it. In this article I will share my knowledge
with you, so you won’t make the same mistakes.

 **How to onboard your folks to crypto:**

  1. [The modern financial system from gold to petroyuan & de-dollarization](/crypto-punks/how-to-onboard-your-folks-to-crypto-1-from-gold-to-petroyuan-de-dollarization-a3dc29201210)
  2. [Debunking misconceptions about crypto deflation](/crypto-punks/crypto-economics-debunking-misconceptions-about-deflation-bd8c020ed21d)
  3. How not to lose your money when entering a crypto market (current)
  4. [How to choose the core holdings of a crypto portfolio](/crypto-punks/how-to-choose-the-core-holdings-of-a-crypto-portfolio-df81abc61ec9)
  5. [Structuring satellite holdings and rebalancing a crypto portfolio](/crypto-punks/how-to-structure-the-satellite-holdings-and-rebalance-a-crypto-portfolio-fc18f3c0516b)

 _Disclosure: some links in this article are referral links. I also own BTC,
ETH, BCH, and other coins, but my portfolio is heavily diversified, so I don’t
have financial incentives to shill for any particular coin. This article is
brought to you by a privacy-oriented peer-to-peer marketplace_[ **
_LocalCryptos_**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra) _._

> People will only learn if they lose money.
>
> © Andreas M. Antonopoulos

# Intro

In the previous articles of this series we’ve talked about a [history of a
modern financial system](/crypto-punks/how-to-onboard-your-folks-to-
crypto-1-from-gold-to-petroyuan-de-dollarization-a3dc29201210), debunked
[misconceptions about deflation](/crypto-punks/crypto-economics-debunking-
misconceptions-about-deflation-bd8c020ed21d), and explained how to motivate
relatives to learn about crypto.

[

## How to onboard your folks to crypto #1: from gold to petroyuan & de-
dollarization

### History of money is a very sensitive and controversial story that shows us
the dark side of human nature through…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/how-to-onboard-folks-to-crypto-1-from-gold-to-
petroyuan-a3dc29201210)

Now is the time to give some practical suggestions how not to lose money while
entering a crypto market.

In this series of articles we will discuss how to spot a conflict of interest,
how much to invest in crypto assets, when is the perfect time to buy in, how
to get the first cryptos and store them safely, where to exchange crypto
assets, which coins/tokens to hold, when to rebalance a crypto portfolio, how
to use leverage investing and avoid flash crashes, why diversification is so
important, how to efficiently follow the news, and when to cash out.

  * The purpose of this article is to educate people about risk-management and importance of diversification
  * Investing in crypto assets is very risky, so don’t read further if you don’t like this technology or prefer stable assets
  * If you’ve already decided to invest in crypto assets, but you don’t have any investing experience, then reading this article can save you money

We will split this topic into two articles, because the first one will cover
the basics, while the second article will focus on more advanced stuff.

# Conflict of interest

Always beware of a COI (Conflict Of Interest) when consuming the crypto
content, because on the unregulated market people often don’t make a proper
disclosure. There is nothing wrong in monetizing an educational content by
promoting things that have value to an audience, but some people motivate
their followers to actively day trade, knowing that most beginners will lose
money in a zero-sum game. Others promote Ponzi schemes and make profit, while
their followers lose money.

Always ask yourself why is this person promoting this platform or coin?

Here is a good example.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*p-D1TqIF1radR0TdvCrc3Q.png)

[Crypto Jay](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WXB8rh__oHQ)

This guy sounded smart and talked about diversification, but top coins from
his list were MLM lending platforms with [his referral links in the
description](http://archive.is/EcB9r). Needless to say, 3 of those 4 Ponzi
schemes crashed within three months after that video.

OK, so what is my motivation to write this article?

  * I’ll get some revenue from referral and sponsor links
  * Crypto articles give me more clients for consulting
  * Writing is an opportunity to improve my investment strategy
  * It’s a contribution to the community, so less people will lose money
  * I believe that cryptocurrencies will liberate people from a debt slavery, help escape the [global banking cartel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LgI0liAee4s), and destroy a government’s monopoly on money creation to make sure that corrupt governments cannot simply print money to fund programs without consent of its citizens (e.g., to fund wars or bail out bankers).

# People are losing money all the time

Firstly, before buying any crypto assets, we should understand that losing
money in a crypto market is very easy. Here are a few examples:

In the end of 2017 [I’ve lost 90% of my Bitfinex balance in flash
crashes](/crypto-punks/how-we-lost-90-of-crypto-investments-in-a-few-
hours-64fdf1fd5ea1). Since my portfolio was diversified between different
platforms, I didn’t lose all my cryptos, but some victims lost the entire
portfolios on that day. Unlike GDAX, [Bitfinex denied any technical issues and
refused to reimburse the victims](/crypto-punks/bitfinex-vs-
community-184a009867b3).

In 2018 Bitconnect Ponzi scheme [crashed](/crypto-punks/bitconnect-promoters-
vs-critics-db5c2524d546) and 1.5 million people lost their money, sometimes
[life savings](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2jZxeLX6VY0). In the same month
BitGrail got hacked and all its users [lost huge
capitals](https://www.reddit.com/r/CryptoCurrency/comments/7whndj/i_lost_147k_nano_14_m_and_falling_in_the_bitgrail/),
which eventually led to [bankruptcy](https://cryptovest.com/news/bitgrail-
owner-ordered-to-reimburse-hack-victims-as-legal-battle-wraps-up/) of the
exchange.

Investors often lose money by [sending cryptos to the wrong
addresses](https://www.reddit.com/r/eos/comments/804tig/if_you_received_267079202_eos_from_the_sky_that/).

Many people became very rich from a margin trading on upswings, but then lost
all their money. The famous example is a guy who earned and then [lost 200
BTC](https://www.reddit.com/r/BitcoinMarkets/comments/7s8umm/how_i_lost_nearly_200_btc_trading_this_past_month/)
(the entire portfolio) in a single downswing tilt. This is a great reminder
not to use any margin, unless you’re a professional trader.

The cryptocurrency market crashed hard in 2018 to slightly bounce back in
2019. Many amateur investors lost money, because they bought high and sold
low, while experienced investors used this opportunity to accumulate more
crypto assets.

People lose money in a crypto market [every
day](https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=lost+bitcoin), sometimes
they lose all their life savings and even [commit
suicides](https://zycrypto.com/20-year-old-korean-student-commits-suicide-
losing-money-bitcoin-trading/).

The crypto space is a “Wild West” with lots of opportunities and dangers. If
you still wanna give it a try, then let’s start.

# Investing vs. trading

FUD = Fear, Doubt, Uncertainty (usually leads to selling low)

FOMO = Fear Of Missing Out (usually leads to buying high)

HODL = misspelled “hold” or Hold On for Dear Life (hoarding)

Trading is a zero-sum game, so if a trader bought low and sold high, then it
means that other traders made the opposite move, selling low in FUD and buying
high in FOMO.

You can try to jump into the game and compete with experienced crypto traders,
but most likely you will either [lose your
money](https://www.reddit.com/r/CryptoCurrency/comments/7jyze7/how_i_went_from_10_btcs_to_30_btcs_to_05_btcs/)
or make less profits than a simple HODLer. You will also have less quality
sleep, higher chances of a heart attack and spend hours staring at charts and
drawing imaginary triangles, instead of doing something meaningful for
yourself and the community.

So in this article we will focus on **investing** , rather than trading.

# Most important security tips

  * Register a unique email address for crypto websites and keep it secret
  * Always activate a 2-factor authentication (TOTP is preferred over SMS)
  * Use unique passwords

# How much to invest and when to buy?

## Loans and margin

Taking any loans to invest in crypto assets is, obviously, an extremely
**BAD** idea, because you can lose everything due to your own mistakes.

If you really want to get some extra adrenaline, then you can try a very
conservative leverage investing with a small portion of your portfolio using
exchange’s margin trade, so you will risk losing only your collateral held (we
will talk about this risky strategy in the next article of this series).

## Lump sum vs. small chunks

Investing all your fiat savings into crypto assets in one day is **NOT** a
good idea, unless you are very young, your salary expectation is rapidly
growing, you are fully in love with cryptos, and the market is extremely
oversold on a big uptrend. If you seriously want to put all your money into
crypto because of FOMO, please watch [this
video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YagUXXtyFn4) how the guy lost all his
savings ($30K) in Bitconnect. Don’t be like him. Be patient.

 **Dollar-cost averaging (DCA)** is the safest way for beginners to start
investing in crypto and it’s very profitable during a bull market, even though
it’s not the most lucrative strategy for [experienced
investors](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dollar_cost_averaging#Criticism).

The idea of DCA is to divide a lump sum into smaller chunks and invest fixed
amounts every week (or month) over a long period of time (e.g. 6–12 months) to
reduce risks associated with volatility and different newbie mistakes like
sending cryptos to a wrong address. With DCA you will sleep much better and
you won’t check prices every hour.

 _Example: instead of buying crypto assets worth of $1,000 in one day, you buy
$100 every Sunday for 10 weeks, so the total acquisition cost will be $1,000._

Keep in mind though that the dollar-cost averaging strategy suits only for
coins that have low transaction fees, otherwise your profit will be eaten by
high fees. Last two years most cryptos had relatively low transaction fees,
but that might change if the crypto mania will come back too soon, because
reliable scaling solutions are still a work-in-progress on many chains, and we
already saw big network congestions before.

## Timing

The timing is not crucial when investing with the DCA strategy, but if you
want to improve the strategy even further, then you can buy every dip during
an uptrend. That’s very common among experienced crypto investors.

You can spot these corrections when most coins become red on short 24h graphs
while staying green on 30 days graphs. Buying at these moments is very
lucrative unless there will be a trend reversal.

[TradingView](https://www.tradingview.com/markets/cryptocurrencies/ideas/) has
free cryptocurrency quotes from many analysts, which will help understand the
market, but don’t trust them blindly with a big sum, because the only thing
they can guarantee is that the price will either go up or down.

# How to buy Bitcoin or Ethereum

## Privacy-oriented peer-to-peer platforms

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*Kyt15c4zfAPjMCdOx6iY9g.png)

[LocalBitcoins](https://localbitcoins.com/) was a popular custodial trading
platform to exchange bitcoins around the globe with all kinds of payment
methods and privacy filters such as “SMS/ID not required”. However, the
platform introduced mandatory KYC in 2019, which turned off many traders,
especially from countries where owning cryptos is not safe.

## LocalCryptos

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*dq6CpScBbmVSKVMHxHOJZA.png)

[ **LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra) is currently the
most advanced privacy-oriented peer-to-peer marketplace to buy and sell
cryptocurrencies with different payment methods from credit cards, PayPal,
PayTM, Western Union to in-person cash.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*CzA9nBwu4bTp6uCzlR1d5Q.png)

Here are a few advantages of
[**LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra):

  * no KYC is required
  * it’s a non-custodial marketplace
  * all chats are end-to-end encrypted
  * it supports multiple cryptocurrencies
  * no google analytics or other web trackers
  * users can log in with their own wallets (e.g. a hardware wallet)
  * unlike some centralized exchanges, it’s available in any country

However, there are some risks of using peer-to-peer marketplaces, so make sure
to find a trader with a good reputation and don’t move large funds with a
first transaction. The escrow system can mitigate these risks, but you should
always be very cautious.

 _Disclosure reminder: LocalCryptos is a long-time sponsor of this blog._

## ATMs

You can also find a cryptocurrency ATM nearby with
[**CoinAtmRadar**](https://coinatmradar.com/). Some ATMs deal only with BTC,
while others support altcoins like ETH, BCH, LTC, etc. However, not all ATMs
support both buying and selling cryptos, so make sure to check that before
commuting to an ATM.

 _Side note: one of my friends went to an ATM without any cash, thinking that
he could buy cryptos with a credit card, so I feel necessary to mention that
most cryptocurrency ATMs require cash, not credit cards._

# How to store crypto assets?

## Hardware wallet

The first step of any cryptocurrency investor is to order a [**hardware
wallet**](http://bit.ly/to_ledger), because it’s the safest way to store
cryptos at the moment. Delivery might take a few weeks, so make sure to order
it before you even ready to buy any crypto. That way you’ll be prepared when
the next market dip happens.

However, a [**hardware wallet**](http://bit.ly/to_ledger) is not a bulletproof
solution, because you can lose it as well as a recovery seed, and hackers
might find some [critical bugs](https://saleemrashid.com/2018/03/20/breaking-
ledger-security-model/) and steal your funds even [without any physical
contact](https://news.bitcoin.com/ledger-addresses-man-in-the-middle-attack-
that-threatens-millions-of-hardware-wallets/) with a device.

## Exchanges and online wallets

 _Side note: there will be no links to custodial exchanges in this section
because all of them have pros and cons, and even the most reputable custodial
exchanges occasionally experience hacks and periods of time when an access to
funds is unavailable._

Custodial exchanges hold your crypto assets (private keys) for you and all
trading is done off-chain, so most hardcore crypto enthusiasts don’t trust
custodial solutions.

Storing big funds on an exchange is a “red flag” unless you are a day trader,
but keeping a portion of your portfolio on a few centralized exchanges can
provide you with certain benefits such as an ability to:

  1. Convert some crypto assets to stablecoins when the market is overbought
  2. Get many altcoins during a bull market
  3. Easily exchange crypto assets even during a network congestion
  4. Rebalance your portfolio without paying extra fees
  5. Access funds even if you don’t have a hardware wallet with you
  6. Set up 2FA, whitelisted IPs and withdrawal addresses
  7. Use APIs

Additionally, if you diversify your crypto portfolio among different custodial
and non-custodial wallets, that will reduce risks to lose everything at once
because of a single point of failure.

## Software, paper and memory wallets

There are a few other options to store cryptocurrencies, but for most
investors a [hardware wallet](http://bit.ly/to_ledger), a custodial exchange
and an online wallet will give enough diversification and flexibility.
However, in order to use cryptos as a payment method, you should get a
software wallet for your device, because it will provide a much better user
experience.

Be careful with in-browser Ethereum wallets though, because [any website can
detect if you are an Ethereum user](https://bloom.co/blog/using-an-in-browser-
ethereum-wallet--here-s-some-things-you-should-know/) and even check your
balance when you unlock a wallet. _Side note: Brave’s BAT wallet is_[ _not
detectable_](https://twitter.com/brianbondy/status/955432611828129793) _and
was included in the tweet below by mistake._

# Conclusion

Now you have a better understanding of how dangerous the crypto market is, and
how to avoid the most common mistakes while investing in cryptos.

In the next article of this series we will discuss more complex topics such as
which coins/tokens to hold, when to rebalance a crypto portfolio, how to use
leverage investing and avoid flash crashes, why diversification is so
important, how to efficiently follow the news, and when to cash out.

If you want to support more candid articles about crypto, security, privacy,
and Hong Kong, then please **share this article** ,
[**retweet**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software/status/1200713152125657090),
[**donate crypto**](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-
activism#donate), or simply sign up at
[**LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra) **** with this
referral link.

 _Disclaimer: I am not a licensed financial advisor, and this article is not a
financial advice. The information presented here is for educational purpose
only, it represents my personal opinion, and is not purported to be fact.
Cryptocurrencies are very volatile and can move quickly in any direction. I’m
not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or
alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any
content, goods, services or companies mentioned in this article. Seek a duly
licensed professional for an investment advice._

If you’re highly concerned about privacy & security, then you should read how
Hong Kong activists [avoid an internet surveillance](/crypto-punks/digital-
resistance-security-privacy-tips-from-hong-kong-protesters-37ff9ef73129).

[

## Digital resistance: security & privacy tips from Hong Kong protesters

### Full digital gear: Telegram, Protonmail, AirDrop, FireChat, Bridgefy,
PrivateBin, Fingertrapp, What3Words, Tor, VPN…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/digital-resistance-security-privacy-tips-from-hong-kong-
protesters-37ff9ef73129)

If you’re an activist, then check out an open source project [**decentralized-
activism**](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-activism), which
shares the best practices from different decentralized movements across the
globe.

[

## SamAI-Software/decentralized-activism

### The purpose of this project is to raise global solidarity, unite people,
and exchange valuable knowledge and experience…

github.com

](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-activism)

  * Help inform people about cryptocurrencies by **clapping** 50 times 👏
  * I only write quality content about cryptocurrencies, blockchain, privacy, security, and Hong Kong. Follow me on [**medium**](/@SamAI_Software), [**twitter**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software), or [**mastodon**](https://mastodon.technology/@samai), and you won’t regret that.
  * Send me a direct message on [**twitter**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software) **** or [**linkedin**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/samaisoftware) if you want me to help improve your project, white paper, website, or sponsor my next articles.
  * Use the most secure, private and intuitive way to swap cryptos with others for your local currency — [**LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra).

\--

3

\--

\--

3

## [More from Crypto Punks](/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
8b95b68d1b76--------------------------------)

Crypto revolution has begun

[Read more from Crypto Punks](/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
8b95b68d1b76--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Coinsandcoins](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*THj766vMNwyH8lx1bqKWkQ.jpeg)](/@coinsandcoins1?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Coinsandcoins

](/@coinsandcoins1?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## FTX chief executive officer considers in on Bitcoin market overview amidst
Ukraine dilemma

](/@coinsandcoins1/ftx-chief-executive-officer-considers-in-on-bitcoin-market-
overview-amidst-ukraine-dilemma-6ca4172df25a?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[[![jamilapatersonofficial](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*W5-2uk96EgYwsHPAuCyThw.png)](/@jamilapatersonofficial?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[jamilapatersonofficial

](/@jamilapatersonofficial?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## With this Bitcoin development, here’s what you can expect

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Kwghf7x4zcr88_b6qu--
hA.jpeg)](/@jamilapatersonofficial/with-this-bitcoin-development-heres-what-
you-can-expect-6e075ae94efd?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Token4Thought](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*8HyZBwP6NuJJTAXWahaTKA.jpeg)](/@randomizedxyz?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Token4Thought

](/@randomizedxyz?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[Vether Asset

](https://medium.com/vether-asset?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## The Vader Protocol (pt. 2) — Anchors & Stability

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*usX8BhK_EGqOvCYUedEgQQ.jpeg)](/vether-
asset/the-vader-protocol-pt-2-anchors-
stability-81477d2f7d4b?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Adamant](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*n-amzkqDlGGD17A9)](/@adamantcoin?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Adamant

](/@adamantcoin?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Adamant Coin Is Now KYC Approved by Assure

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*t3gsy5tHrH7vhjVXxWcrnw.png)](/@adamantcoin/adamant-
coin-is-now-kyc-approved-by-assure-539472f0f4e3?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[[![Malviyaop](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*jkihPSLZnFSKVHgiXG7uKA.jpeg)](/@omprakashmlv9?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Malviyaop

](/@omprakashmlv9?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

in

[Tezos India Foundation

](https://medium.com/tezos-india-foundation?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

## TezIndia v. Harappa | Announcing a month-long Tezos Hackathon (Applications
Open!)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*dxgaPQF-
xGi3efDjh4HEkA.jpeg)](/tezos-india-foundation/tezindia-v-harappa-announcing-a-
month-long-tezos-hackathon-applications-
open-62016993d859?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Gary Leland](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*IdPGCAsZu_1iXwk-
TbdgBQ.jpeg)](/@garyleland?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[Gary Leland

](/@garyleland?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Pomp Continues Push for Pension Fund Bitcoin Allocation

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*H-fc-
_vQh69_34lf9ymMtQ.jpeg)](/@garyleland/pomp-continues-push-for-pension-fund-
bitcoin-allocation-5db6848c5291?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Bitcoinassetprotocol](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*p63U3U1zVl0ThgXi)](/@bitcoinassetprotocol?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Bitcoinassetprotocol

](/@bitcoinassetprotocol?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Anyone who would like to add BTA token to their wallet can follow this
step:

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*b7JziIG-0AVDpiqA6_ndlA.jpeg)](/@bitcoinassetprotocol/anyone-
who-would-like-to-add-bta-token-to-their-wallet-can-follow-this-
step-f43432c5198c?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Rajib
Mitra](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*T2JCNaIz0Yph4mL2z5vkCw.jpeg)](/@rajib.jolite?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Rajib Mitra

](/@rajib.jolite?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Playing with OpenFaaS Cloud

](/@rajib.jolite/playing-with-openfaas-
cloud-c4ff837f845f?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----8b95b68d1b76--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
8b95b68d1b76--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
8b95b68d1b76--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
8b95b68d1b76--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
8b95b68d1b76--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----8b95b68d1b76--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----8b95b68d1b76--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcrypto-
punks%2Fhow-not-to-lose-your-money-when-entering-a-crypto-
market-8b95b68d1b76&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Sam
Aiken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/0*KLR9G_nzD3rK1p1w.jpg)](/@SamAI_Software)

[

## Sam Aiken

](/@SamAI_Software)

1.2K Followers

We are one big community

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F3cf7356baaf9&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcrypto-
punks%2Fhow-not-to-lose-your-money-when-entering-a-crypto-
market-8b95b68d1b76&newsletterV3=39881a7541cc&newsletterV3Id=3cf7356baaf9&user=Sam+Aiken&userId=39881a7541cc&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Lilcrypto](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*uZ5REecuJDts3SeBs9iIeQ.jpeg)](/@Lilcrypto?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------700d9aa6_8bcb_49d5_8443_be9b68d773cb-------)

[Lilcrypto

](/@Lilcrypto?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
700d9aa6_8bcb_49d5_8443_be9b68d773cb-------)

## The Daily Crypto Market Meditations Of Lilcrypto

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*96pHbGvFqH4O0jXyjrrU_A.png)](/@Lilcrypto/the-
daily-crypto-market-meditations-of-
lilcrypto-8f9f6531a675?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
700d9aa6_8bcb_49d5_8443_be9b68d773cb-------)

[[![Ananya
Nandakumar](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*K-qNfR2QOZZuV3XY_AJ_6A.png)](/@ananyanandakumar?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------700d9aa6_8bcb_49d5_8443_be9b68d773cb-------)

[Ananya Nandakumar

](/@ananyanandakumar?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
700d9aa6_8bcb_49d5_8443_be9b68d773cb-------)

## How I negotiated with my wife to invest in Crypto

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*EOPRKQJ9KytLlvew0JmS0w.png)](/@ananyanandakumar/how-
i-negotiated-with-my-wife-to-invest-in-crypto-
fcdf431e532c?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
700d9aa6_8bcb_49d5_8443_be9b68d773cb-------)

[[![Erich
Richards](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*wnl7xb4LUcjYwnoe48X1MQ.jpeg)](/@cleangreengrowth?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------700d9aa6_8bcb_49d5_8443_be9b68d773cb-------)

[Erich Richards

](/@cleangreengrowth?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
700d9aa6_8bcb_49d5_8443_be9b68d773cb-------)

in

[Lessons For the New Stock Market and Digital Marketplace

](https://medium.com/lessons-for-the-new-stock-market-and-
digital?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
700d9aa6_8bcb_49d5_8443_be9b68d773cb-------)

## How To Make Money If Bitcoin Crashes (Or Lose Smaller)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*f3Dif5CoyvaJ8O84YQm0Vw.png)](/lessons-
for-the-new-stock-market-and-digital/how-to-make-money-if-bitcoin-crashes-or-
lose-smaller-845ac8e6528d?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------700d9aa6_8bcb_49d5_8443_be9b68d773cb-------)

[[![Michael Yorke](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*BW6uGiK-
BHT96aif5_1M6Q.jpeg)](/@michael-yorke?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------700d9aa6_8bcb_49d5_8443_be9b68d773cb-------)

[Michael Yorke

](/@michael-yorke?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
700d9aa6_8bcb_49d5_8443_be9b68d773cb-------)

## Cryptocurrency’s Sustainable Future

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*uss2x3mKGEL95ca6)](/@michael-
yorke/cryptocurrencys-sustainable-future-e8b397ec0913?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------700d9aa6_8bcb_49d5_8443_be9b68d773cb-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

