![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/how-to-protect-your-privacy-on-a-mobile-phone/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/how-to-protect-your-privacy-on-a-mobile-phone/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/how-to-protect-your-privacy-on-a-mobile-phone/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/how-to-protect-your-privacy-on-a-mobile-phone/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/how-to-protect-your-privacy-on-a-mobile-phone/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/how-to-protect-your-privacy-on-a-mobile-phone/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![How to protect your privacy on a mobile
phone](/static/7740d369fb1d82334bf666488c7feaaf/Orchid_BlogImage_MobilePrivacy.jpg)

# How to protect your privacy on a mobile phone

Sep 24, 2020  
  

Talk of Internet privacy, surveillance, and VPNs often conjures images of
people working on desktops or laptops in offices or public spaces, taking
steps to keep their information safe online. But nowadays [more than half of
all Internet activity](https://www.oberlo.com/statistics/mobile-internet-
traffic#:~:text=The%20percentage%20of%20global%20web,traffic%20comes%20through%20mobile%20phones.)
takes place over mobile phones. So it's crucial to understand that at the same
time as our devices are providing vast amounts of information that allow us to
lead our daily lives, they are also collecting data about us in equal or
greater amounts.

The fact that our mobile activity can be so easily tracked is demonstrated by
the preponderance of information captured by our phones: location, movement,
voice, browsing activity, and more. The truth is that for most people, the
Internet is something carried around in a pocket. In order to maintain
privacy, then, it's not enough to take precautions on laptops and desktops --
we need to stay private on our mobile phones as well.

Our smartphones have a number of characteristics that distinguish them from
desktops and other, more fixed devices. While anything connected to the
Internet can transmit location data, mobile devices can paint a picture of a
person's everyday activity in a way that laptops, smart TVs, and other gadgets
don't. Indeed, governments [already use location
data](https://www.wsj.com/articles/government-tracking-how-people-move-around-
in-coronavirus-pandemic-11585393202) from millions of smartphones to gain a
picture of the habits and movements of their populations.

It's not difficult to imagine how smartphone data could be used as a weapon
against ordinary people. Data about where people have been, with whom they've
crossed paths, what apps they've used, what they've bought, where and when --
all of this information is easily accessible if mobile privacy is not
established and maintained.

**What our phones are saying about us**

Our phones are continuously transmitting a universe of information about our
daily activities. Key among these is location: [deploying a range of
techniques](https://www.pcworld.com/article/253354/ten_ways_your_smartphone_knows_where_you_are.html)
and tools, from GPS to cell tower tracking to Bluetooth beacons, our mobile
service providers can determine our physical locations down to just a few
yards. Many people use "Find My Friends" or similar apps to share their
locations with friends and family. What many may not realize -- or simply may
not think about -- is that regardless of whether they are actively using these
apps, their phones are constantly collecting their data.

In addition to location information, our phones know which apps we are using
at any given time as well as the calls we make and the texts we send. Our
smartphones record any payments made through apps like PayPal or Apple Pay.
They share the operating system and browser we are using when we access the
Internet. Taken together, all this mobile-based digital information adds up to
a highly detailed portrait of a person's activities.

Oftentimes the popular image of Internet surveillance or identity theft is one
of hackers in black hats, in shady corners, eagerly hunting for weaknesses
through which to pull people's sensitive information. But the truth is less
dramatic and more frightening. Our data, once generated, lives in the ether as
"metadata," which is used for many legitimate purposes by advertisers and
businesses.

When it comes to digital privacy, people are most often betrayed by their own
carelessness. For example, based solely on data transmitted "passively" by a
mobile device, it would easily be possible to determine that the owner left
home at a specific time to meet a friend for lunch -- including how they got
to the restaurant and precisely what they ate. This sort of data is being
generated and harvested all the time for advertising purposes.

Metadata is used by virtually every app or Internet platform to identify
trends that help them better target their ads. It is also used to identify
user preferences in order to tweak products to better meet demand. This is
certainly useful -- but the way data is managed today is extremely dangerous.
And it is mostly gathered without the subjects' knowledge, and without their
active consent -- regardless of whether they've hit "agree" to a 100-page
privacy policy.

It is possible for anyone with access to our data -- the apps that we browse,
the cellular carriers and Internet service providers we use -- to gain
enormous amounts of information about the way we live our lives based on the
data that is automatically, silently transmitted by our mobile devices. This
mass harvesting of data raises real concerns, the most obvious of which is
that the information could fall into the wrong hands. There have been more
than enough stories of large-scale data breaches to drive home the point that
our information is not safe. But there are other risks.

Governments can compel businesses to turn over records of their users'
activities -- and even legally monitor them through a form of surveillance
known as lawful interception. Many smartphones also store users' biometric
information, which includes fingerprints, facial features, and voice
characteristics. When we unlock an iPhone using facial recognition, log into a
bank account using a fingerprint, or ask Siri for directions, we are using
biometric information.

It's important to realize that all of this data is out there, and that this
simple fact puts all of us at risk. Once our information is in the public
domain, there is very little we can do to regain control over it. The vast
amounts of personal mobile data that are available online, and the minute
details they can provide about a person's comings and goings, their
relationships, even their thoughts, are a gold mine for those who would seek
to steal, intimidate, or control.

Many authoritarian regimes, for instance, already use data collection limit
opposition and dissent. Facial recognition technology is already employed in
some countries to identify, surveil, and arrest people. In more elaborate
structures, vast systems of "social credit" have been developed to regulate
which privileges are awarded to whom, based partly on the data shared by
mobile devices.

**How to maintain the right level of privacy on mobile**

Fortunately, there are ways to mitigate the privacy risks posed by
smartphones. The simplest and most effective is simply to turn off
transmitting devices. For strong privacy, people can disable cellular data and
wi-fi, swap SIM cards, or simply leave their phones at home. Indeed, these
measures may be the only solution in extreme situations. Protesters in many
countries may find it safest to simply disable mobile capability altogether in
order to avoid identification and harassment by authorities. Journalists
working in dangerous locales may similarly find that their only option is to
go analog or use a "burner" phone. These are some scenarios in which simply
shutting down may be the best solution.

But for most people, most of the time, it is not feasible to go long periods
without mobile connectivity. Fortunately, there are measures people can take
to minimize the risk that their privacy will be compromised by their mobile
devices -- without unplugging completely.

Some basic steps can be taken in the settings of our phones themselves. The
first thing people should do to enhance mobile privacy is to turn off GPS when
not using it. People should, whenever possible, avoid using social media via
their dedicated smartphone apps. Social apps such as TikTok are continuously
pulling users' data behind the scenes, monitoring and reporting back many
things that aren't necessary for the app to function properly. To short-
circuit this, people should use a privacy-focused browser, such as Firefox,
when accessing social platforms, rather than their respective smartphone apps.

If apps must be installed, it's important to limit the things we give them
access to: contacts or location, for example. Think about what the service
really needs to perform its function; does a music streaming platform really
need access to your contacts? Most services don't need to know a person's
location even when not using the app, or to turn on voice commands. Only grant
mobile app permissions if it's essential to the functionality of the app.

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

**People can have stronger privacy without giving up mobile functionality**

Beyond the privacy settings on our smartphones, there are tools people can use
to strengthen and protect their privacy when they browse the Internet. Key
among these privacy tools are VPNs, which route traffic through an encrypted,
third-party server, obfuscating its path and making it much more difficult for
third parties to identify the nature of web traffic or the identity of the
user.

People often picture a desktop VPN when thinking of Internet privacy tools,
but many providers have mobile apps as well. And using a mobile VPN -- already
a popular way to access messaging and other services in countries where these
are blocked -- may be the single most impactful choice a mobile user can make
to protect their privacy. In combination with other measures, such as using a
browser rather than an app to access social media services, mobile VPNs can
enhance privacy by preventing third parties from seeing users' true IP
addresses. Since IP addresses are one of the key identifiers of Internet
users, obscuring them offers a major boost to mobile privacy.

As with all things privacy related, there is no silver bullet. For maximum
security, the best approach is to combine solutions, such as using a VPN
provider together with encrypted messaging and video apps. End-to-end
encryption is a method whereby the content of a message or communication is
scrambled, or encrypted, while in transit between devices, so that it cannot
be recognized even by the service provider. The true, unencrypted message only
lives on the end devices themselves, so if they are deleted there, they
disappear everywhere.

The apps and browsers we use are important as well. Not all web browsers are
created equal: some have clear advantages over others when it comes to
privacy. It's also possible for individuals to "harden" their browsers by
installing extensions and making other changes to their configurations. These
changes require at least a moderate level of technical expertise, but they can
make it more difficult for third parties to access information about people's
online activity.

Orchid, which is a unique decentralized VPN marketplace, is available in both
the Apple App Store and Google Playstore. Orchid uses an innovative system of
probabilistic nanopayments to connect users to the services of many of the top
VPN providers. Users can configure multiple "hops," including between
different VPN providers, in order to create as much privacy around their
Internet usage as is currently possible. With a VPN service such as Orchid
installed, people can have much greater confidence in their mobile privacy.

**Giving and taking information**

We think of our phones as providing us with information -- and it's absolutely
true that the last 15 years have seen a revolution in mobile technology. Each
of us now carries around in our pocket a miniature supercomputer, capable of
telling us almost anything about anything or anyone, of sharing music and
videos, of hailing a ride or ordering dinner. For many of us, it's one of the
chief ways we stay in touch and connect with the world. For better or worse,
we are a mobile-first world now.

But it's imperative that we understand that our phones also collect reams of
information on us as we use them -- and they take without asking. All of the
searching, chatting, sharing, moving, and talking that we do is gathered,
saved, and shared. Our data acts as the fuel of the digital economy.

Fortunately, with awareness, and the right tools, people can go a long way
toward staying safe on their mobile devices. While there is no single way for
us to achieve perfect privacy, if we take the right steps to protect ourselves
when we use our mobile devices, it is possible to move confidently through our
mobile-first digital world. By combining the best solutions and being aware of
what the various services we use are doing behind the scenes, we can start to
reclaim the mobile Internet as a place to explore freely.

[Download the Orchid app](https://www.orchid.com/download) today.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)
  * [VPN](/tag/vpn/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22How%20to%20protect%20your%20privacy%20on%20a%20mobile%20phone%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fhow-
to-protect-your-privacy-on-a-mobile-phone%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fhow-
to-protect-your-privacy-on-a-mobile-phone%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fhow-
to-protect-your-privacy-on-a-mobile-phone%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/what-does-a-vpn-hide/)

#### What does a VPN hide?

](/what-does-a-vpn-hide/)

Apr 15, 2021

](/what-is-split-tunneling/)

[

#### What is split tunneling?

](/what-is-split-tunneling/)

May 3, 2021

](/why-ordinary-people-are-turning-to-vpns/)

[

#### Why Ordinary People Are Turning to VPNs

](/why-ordinary-people-are-turning-to-vpns/)

Jul 14, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

