[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/36d39d07c63d&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Instadapp](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*Jdx_PVb-M-
wDOIBWGFLXhg.png)](https://medium.com/instadapp?source=post_page-----
36d39d07c63d--------------------------------)

Published in

[Instadapp

](https://medium.com/instadapp?source=post_page-----
36d39d07c63d--------------------------------)

[![Vishva
Dave](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*LKfdY9Z0dQ2X4d95Pq6LRw.jpeg)](/@vishvad?source=post_page
-----36d39d07c63d--------------------------------)

[Vishva Dave](/@vishvad?source=post_page-----
36d39d07c63d--------------------------------)

Follow

Oct 17, 2019

·

5 min read

# How Kids will Bank.

Growing up, I was taught that banks were the primary pillars of the financial
world — I realized, I was wrong when I got my hands on DeFi.

Just as you begin to think the buzz around DeFi has elevated, you might think
that most people at least have bank accounts. Well, you’re wrong. [As per
research](https://www.forbes.com/sites/niallmccarthy/2018/06/08/1-7-billion-
adults-worldwide-do-not-have-access-to-a-bank-account-
infographic/#61289d8e4b01), about 1.7 billion people in the world do not have
access to a bank account.

Not being connected to a financial system, makes day-to-day living much more
complicated. However, what is even astounding is that about 1 billion of these
people have mobile phones and about 500 million have access to the internet.

DeFi, short for Decentralized Finance, this is a concept that anyone can
rebuild traditional financial services from scratch in a decentralised manner,
without worrying about getting censored. **We can not only participate, but
also able to innovate globally from day one.**

In the last year, DeFi has gained propulsion bringing about a digital
revolution. More than half a billion dollars have been locked in overall DeFi
protocols, which only shows how fast this industry is pacing.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*ljN7WeL0O7eAcsGy.png)

Being permissionless, fast, secure and transparent, Decentralized Finance is
on its journey to replacing the financial hurdles that we face in the world
today because of centralized entities.

Now it’s been a while since I’ve been playing around with DeFi. The difference
and impact it can have on how we bank in future is quite evident. It matured
with the idea of one having transparency with their assets and being able to
securely send, receive, lend, borrow, stake etc.

Here are a few barriers DeFi is knocking out:

# Location

Being a foreign student, sending and receiving money from home would take
about 2–3 business days and I am usually charged a minimum $30 per transfer.
Which was unacceptable, living on a tight budget in a foreign country.

After interacting with DeFi for the first time last year, I was amazed by how
I [loaned myself some
DAI](https://twitter.com/vishvadavee/status/1078667347659939846) (USD pegged
stable coin) for the first time on a Sunday while the banks were closed.

Thereafter, I introduced Coinbase and USDC to my father. I helped my dad set
up a Coinbase account, converted fiat to USDC, and then he sent the money to
my address. I had enough funds to pay for my tuition in just a couple of
minutes. Most of the time, sending money is risky and unsafe. I remember how
restless and anxious my father and I got when sending or receiving money.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*W55wOmsKY-t3lrf5.jpg)

It’s wondrous how we didn’t require the approval of a third person. Allowing
everyone to have access to it without any geographical limits.

DeFi could turn into a blessing to several people in less advanced areas in
the world, where banks are hard to come by. **Having to trust the transaction
instead of middlemen, makes everything more unbiased and more secure.**

# Age

People usually presume that one needs to be 18 to deal with money. This is
because banks make us believe that we _need_ a third person to help us manage
our assets. The lack of education in society has consistently led people to be
ignorant about topics like these because they were afraid that they’d lose
their money.

Banks, governments and other central entities love using confusing terms to
make you think only they can do what they do. DeFi makes it easy to get on
board with a protocol that could help you manage your assets. All you need is
an internet connection to get started.

 **It’s fascinating to see how the younger people are so familiar with how
DeFi works and think that traditional finance is way more complicated.**

I am not surprised I have more money in DeFi than I do in my bank account.
This simple dashboard that I call my Bank allows me to not only borrow and
lend but also earn interest!

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*-Ja6P04pMdlHyHVG.png)

the numbers in the image are for illustrative purpose

# Security

In this world, risk of financial catastrophe and data exploitation circle back
to how banks require us to provide A LOT of personal details to start using
their services.

The 2008 Financial Crisis is a good example where the whole US market
(including highly qualified banks) was bullish on real estate.

I highly recommend watching the movie, “The Big Short”. It’s about a group of
clever opportunists that make a fortune of the U.S. economic crash by sniffing
out the flaws and corruption in the system in advance and betting against the
banks.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*YjgUqMQJN7FyVDbV.png)

Every single time you pay rent or invest in the stock market or even pay for
food, you’re exposed to getting hacked. Traditionally, every transaction must
go through a central institution, and just one weak link can leave all your
money hanging by a thread.

Banks are people, and people make mistakes. However, in this new financial
system, you don’t trust humans, you simply trust the algorithm. With the
underlying blockchain tech behind DeFi, transactions have become secure and
nearly impossible to hack.

My father thought this was some sort of scam before I convinced him to at
least give it a shot. Now, he knows why banks are always revolting against
cryptocurrency.

# Speed and Cost

Sending, receiving, lending and borrowing me take just about a couple of
minutes if not seconds, unlike traditional systems that take as much as days
for a single transaction.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*-1UFSXiGkovNBpcq.png)

Despite moving $100k across two accounts, CDP
[#18917](https://makerscan.io/cups/18917/) was only charged $0.25 to process
the transaction.

# Conclusion

Evidently, money will eventually — and sooner — go digital. Decentralized
Finance can restructure how the current market functions and change the course
of how the world connects.

Bill Gates quoted this as a big opportunity for technological innovation:

> “If we were building a financial system from scratch today, we’d do it on a
> digital platform. Digital can lower the cost on a range of transactions by
> as much as 90%, providing nearly universal access to innovative financial
> products and services.”

DeFi is writing the whole banking system from scratch. It is worthwhile to
keep track of the DeFi movement because it embodies a group of pissed off
people who are ambitious to build a fairer financial system.

DeFi is substantially a technological promise, but like any promise, it needs
time to unfold. [InstaDApp](http://instadapp.io) is excited to work with the
rest of the crypto ecosystem in making DeFi simple and accessible to everyone.

If you have any thoughts, hit me up on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/vishvadavee)!

\--

1

\--

\--

1

## [More from Instadapp](/instadapp?source=post_page-----
36d39d07c63d--------------------------------)

Powerful DeFi Management Platform

[Read more from Instadapp](/instadapp?source=post_page-----
36d39d07c63d--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![CJ
Scholes](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*zCd2gx6vhPGDPZMuZb_qRA.jpeg)](/@CJScholeswrites?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[CJ Scholes

](/@CJScholeswrites?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## How Your Local Bank Makes the Most of Mobile Banking Features, and How You
Can do the Same

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*NIyh9Xev1LtrAoR28jMDBA.jpeg)](/@CJScholeswrites/how-
your-local-bank-makes-the-most-of-mobile-banking-features-and-how-you-can-do-
the-same-c54038d88ffe?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Anshul
Khandelwal](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*CiYNFdCq8HR3zVamr0PDPw.jpeg)](/@anshulkhandelwal?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Anshul Khandelwal

](/@anshulkhandelwal?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## P2P Lending- Are we ready?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*r2_crQBm6aQFsgGdayPnHw.jpeg)](/@anshulkhandelwal/p2p-lending-
are-we-ready-7ea7f84d1855?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Daniel's
Brew](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*gFJtD4EfFHgjgvMv)](/@danielsbrew?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Daniel's Brew

](/@danielsbrew?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[Making of a Millionaire

](https://medium.com/makingofamillionaire?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## 5 Key Financial Changes You Need To Make During The 2020 Pandemic

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*FIrbZR764fZEmq_cVJvS_A.jpeg)](/makingofamillionaire/5-key-
financial-changes-you-need-to-make-during-
the-2020-pandemic-246642424f2?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Apikover](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@apikover0?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Apikover

](/@apikover0?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## north carolina vehicle insurance

](/@apikover0/north-carolina-vehicle-insurance-
eae9b03d1294?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

[[![Liplet4072](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@cjaime.sullivan?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Liplet4072

](/@cjaime.sullivan?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Car Loan or Personal Loan?

](/@cjaime.sullivan/car-loan-or-personal-
loan-b15191e1bf03?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Programmer](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@programmersolidity?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Programmer

](/@programmersolidity?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## How does the Averaging Down strategy work in trading?

](/@programmersolidity/how-does-the-averaging-down-strategy-work-in-
trading-790418352ca8?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Johnny
TheHandsome](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*3dvECU26mPwZtAJU.jpg)](/@johnnyhandsome?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Johnny TheHandsome

](/@johnnyhandsome?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[Making of a Millionaire

](https://medium.com/makingofamillionaire?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## How to get more out of your money with the Nobel Prize winning strategy

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*a_WuRSQY8NoPA0TbDRileA.jpeg)](/makingofamillionaire/how-
to-get-more-out-of-your-money-with-the-nobel-prize-winning-
strategy-69c1c51f662b?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Allcott](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*68lLZn2plPEEQEXcf6BiBw.jpeg)](/@allcott?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Allcott

](/@allcott?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

## 1st Full Week of No-Buy

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*CUxD0hNk1skIHUVRt0ZcMg.png)](/@allcott/1st-
full-week-of-no-buy-73a2b0a8339b?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----36d39d07c63d--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
36d39d07c63d--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
36d39d07c63d--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
36d39d07c63d--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
36d39d07c63d--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----36d39d07c63d--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----36d39d07c63d--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Finstadapp%2Fhow-
kids-will-bank-36d39d07c63d&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Vishva
Dave](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*LKfdY9Z0dQ2X4d95Pq6LRw.jpeg)](/@vishvad)

[

## Vishva Dave

](/@vishvad)

191 Followers

Web3, Crypto and Decentralisation. Forever a learner. Vegan.

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F8cc57037b3af&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Finstadapp%2Fhow-
kids-will-
bank-36d39d07c63d&newsletterV3=e0392d5b2712&newsletterV3Id=8cc57037b3af&user=Vishva+Dave&userId=e0392d5b2712&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Alex
Davis](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*4HEWNmjGN2QyQq79eFU5KQ@2x.jpeg)](/@alex-
davis?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
04967c2c_d5c9_4698_bed7_c307f1728ff3-------)

[Alex Davis

](/@alex-davis?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
04967c2c_d5c9_4698_bed7_c307f1728ff3-------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------04967c2c_d5c9_4698_bed7_c307f1728ff3-------)

## What new Canadian cryptoasset regulatory framework should address

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*RnEjmnG5HM43jBFHYmICUg.jpeg)](/coinmonks/what-
new-canadian-cryptoasset-regulatory-framework-should-
address-500daa343285?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
04967c2c_d5c9_4698_bed7_c307f1728ff3-------)

[[![Few and
Far](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*ymbQknnMFoe0qcq0)](/@fewandfarmarketplace?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------04967c2c_d5c9_4698_bed7_c307f1728ff3-------)

[Few and Far

](/@fewandfarmarketplace?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------04967c2c_d5c9_4698_bed7_c307f1728ff3-------)

in

[Few and Far

](https://medium.com/few-and-far?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------04967c2c_d5c9_4698_bed7_c307f1728ff3-------)

## Introducing to Few and Far 🌴🪨

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Ik7tnygxbu-
OblqTPTNdJg.png)](/few-and-far/introducing-to-few-and-
far-c68f4b157a55?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
04967c2c_d5c9_4698_bed7_c307f1728ff3-------)

[[![Bruh
Official](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*kzMVajNR6dYa1yI7I6-F5Q.png)](/@bruhtokeno?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------04967c2c_d5c9_4698_bed7_c307f1728ff3-------)

[Bruh Official

](/@bruhtokeno?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
04967c2c_d5c9_4698_bed7_c307f1728ff3-------)

## The Road Ahead

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*3_IPJWTl4jehfsmloC7-Pw.jpeg)](/@bruhtokeno/the-
road-ahead-6d6606d1da4e?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
04967c2c_d5c9_4698_bed7_c307f1728ff3-------)

[[![Degen Dwarfs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*PU1lrfBJ5pINlcNUQ-
loIA.jpeg)](/@degendwarfs?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------04967c2c_d5c9_4698_bed7_c307f1728ff3-------)

[Degen Dwarfs

](/@degendwarfs?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
04967c2c_d5c9_4698_bed7_c307f1728ff3-------)

## Degen Dwarfs — Next Steps!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*8ccq5yKyD52JJx9O)](/@degendwarfs/degen-
dwarfs-next-steps-4cb13d145d7e?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------04967c2c_d5c9_4698_bed7_c307f1728ff3-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

