[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/5d49da0c43f5&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Instadapp](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*Jdx_PVb-M-
wDOIBWGFLXhg.png)](https://medium.com/instadapp?source=post_page-----
5d49da0c43f5--------------------------------)

Published in

[Instadapp

](https://medium.com/instadapp?source=post_page-----
5d49da0c43f5--------------------------------)

[![Vishva
Dave](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*LKfdY9Z0dQ2X4d95Pq6LRw.jpeg)](/@vishvad?source=post_page
-----5d49da0c43f5--------------------------------)

[Vishva Dave](/@vishvad?source=post_page-----
5d49da0c43f5--------------------------------)

Follow

Feb 7, 2020

·

10 min read

# How to get started with DeFi: A guide from “Huh?” to “Wow!”

## You’ve been wondering how to get started with DeFi?

DeFi is a cool way to say _Decentralised Finance,_ which involves building a
brand-new financial system with underlying blockchain technology and enabling
truly unfiltered access to global financial systems.

In a world where finance is gatekept and controlled by opaque institutions
that seek to take a significant cut of every transaction, block off
competitors and control customers, DeFi is critical to fulfiling finance’s
true purpose.

DeFi has gained a lot of momentum in the past year or so as it crosses $1B
worth of total value locked (at the time of writing). A lot of people have
begun to show interest in DeFi, mainly because of its ability to continuously[
earn a good amount of
interest](https://twitter.com/InstaDApp/status/1154460231373508608) on DAI
(the famous USD pegged stablecoin).

 **I got my hands dirty with DeFi in late 2018, being 17 at the time I was not
allowed direct access to traditional Finance, which is why the DeFi space
fascinated me.**

Before beginning with DeFi, I was curious about what was so different about
it. As I dug deeper, I couldn’t help but notice the potholes in today’s
financial system — age and geographical barriers, not secure enough, excessive
documents and personal details required, slow and high transaction fees, etc.

 **But, how the heck do you get started?** There is so much information out
there on the web, and everyone’s telling you to do different things. Who do
you listen to? Where’s the starting point? What if you get stuck in a Ponzi
scheme?

 **Dang, it’s confusing, maybe you should just continue working with your
traditional bank (?)**

Well, hold on for a sec. I used to be a DeFi noob too. I had the same
problems. [I took out my first loan](/instadapp/first-loan-355d3c84d0ae) on
the blockchain in late 2018, and I knew less than nothing about DeFi. However,
because of DeFi being accessible to everyone, I was not surprised [I got my
ethereum account before my bank
account](https://twitter.com/vishvadavee/status/1184916046387376128), and I
have been hooked on DeFi since then.

 **The motivation behind this is simple:** I am not claiming that
Decentralised Finance is all rainbows, but the fact that it is beginning to
question traditional Finance and that there are an [estimated 1.7 billion
people who currently lack access to financial
services](https://globalfindex.worldbank.org/sites/globalfindex/files/chapters/2017%20Findex%20full%20report_chapter2.pdf)
even though the existing system has been continuously generating wealth, very
little has been ended up going to this excluded population.

This is not quantum physics. It’s not wrong to want better financial services,
and getting started now is undoubtedly the right thing to do.

 **I promise it’s simple and easy to understand, no stupid jargon. I’ve also
added a few images to help you know more clearly. However, if you do get stuck
anywhere around,**[ **send me an email**](mailto:vishva@instadapp.io) **or hit
me up on**[ **twitter**](http://twitter.com/vishvadavee) **and we’ll figure it
out together.**

Awesome, let’s move on.

The 3 **Simple Steps** to get started with Decentralised Finance:

  1. Get an “ **Internet Wallet** ”
  2. Get some “ **Ethereum** ”
  3. Get a blockchain-based “ **Loan** ”
  4. Start earning **interest**!

 **Requirements:** Internet connection and working device.

So, without any further ado, let’s jump into **step 1.**

# Step 1 — Get an “Internet Wallet”

Decentralised Finance, unlike the banks, doesn’t have any central authority or
a third party through which your transactions go through. **DeFi is
trustless.**

Ever since cryptocurrencies have gone mainstream, there are so many internet
wallets that allow you to connect and interact with the world of DeFi. One of
the popular ones, which I also started with, was — **Metamask**. Today, let’s
begin with Metamask.

  1. Download the [Metamask extension](http://metamask.io/). Remember, you need to be on a Desktop with a browser which supports extensions (like Chrome or [Brave](https://brave.com/)).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*QsGKe8ahwSIHXGBQrdawQQ.png)

Get the extension according to the browser you’re using

2\. Create a new wallet. Once you’ve installed the extension, you’ll be asked
to create a new wallet. As you reading this article, I’ll assume that you’re
completely new to DeFi so once you’ve installed the extension, go ahead with
“Create a Wallet” option as shown below in the second box.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*AKc96SfNj4NXk6ztVXm_KQ.png)

Click on “Create a Wallet”

3\. You’ll be asked to set a password. Once you agree to the terms and
conditions, you’ll be asked to set a unique password.

 **Note:** this password is just used to secure your Metamask wallet on the
browser. If you lose your device and don’t have access to your private keys
(explained in next step), you can’t access your account with just this
password.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*W7rRqEq4yqZLzNbppVHicw.png)

4\. A seed phrase consisting of 12 random words will be given to you. Make
sure you store these words in a safe place.

 **Note:** Make sure to store these words very safely. Write it down, put it
inside your locker or memorise them ALL. Personally, I had textually sent 4
words each to my father, mother and my brother. The point is that these need
to be kept safely so you can recover your account if in any case of an
incident **.**

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*W6yCNFrsQdAexDs4dKdi5Q.png)

Store these words somewhere secure

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*qZAdxpiICp1Fswt9a8FKdA.png)

Enter each phrase in the order it was given to you to confirm

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*Q5Zz20ZttzG1mbT1SdpFXA.png)

Now you have a Metamask wallet, let’s have a look here, you now have **Two
Keys —** Public and Private Key.

A public key, the one you see on top (as shown in the image below) is used on
the blockchain, to track your transactions. [Etherscan](https://etherscan.io)
is a good place to track transactions on ethereum blockchain — go ahead and
check the [Vitalik Buterin’s](https://twitter.com/VitalikButerin) (the founder
of Ethereum) account
([0xd8…6045](https://etherscan.io/address/0xd8da6bf26964af9d7eed9e03e53415d37aa96045)).
You see its all transparent.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*DVTNqxLgKXiqriOQR6qhCA.png)

This is your Public Key

 **Private Key** is like a vault code. You can obtain these by clicking on
“Export Keys” in the Account Details on your Metamask. **You** **cannot afford
to lose this key** ; they authorise your transactions.

You can export your Private Keys by going into details and clicking on
**“Export Private Key”** , you’ll be asked for your metamask password to
access them.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*io1f6_ed0zwN2PA6_CARnQ.png)

>  ** _Disclaimer_ :** If you lose your private keys, you will lose access to
> your account forever. I know it sounds scary, but just store them in a safe
> place. There’s a lot of teams working around to fix this problem via
> Authentication Models (blog coming up soon).

I like to interact with DeFi while I am on my laptop, but you can also begin
by using mobile wallets such as Argent, TrustWallet, CoinbaseWallet, etc.

 **Take back:** Store your 12-word seed phrase and private keys very safely.

There you go, now you have a **digital wallet.** You just took your first step
in interacting with DeFi. Yay!

# Step 2 — Get some “Ethereum”

Due to the epidemic of blockchain technology, there are several blockchains
out there. However, when it comes to DeFi, ethereum blockchain is leading
because of the value it provides through its smart contracts _(which we’ll
leave to talk about in another article)_.

In the DeFi space, it’s about having a smarter and easier way to carry out
financial operations

DeFi is about recreating finance in a smarter and easier way, which is why
right now **ETH** is the most used asset in the DeFi space, because of the
value it provides with its ability to write smart contracts, which can be used
for pretty much everything. In our case, for now, it will be used as
collateral to take out a loan.

I had gathered some DAI initially via freelancing work, and then traded it for
1 ETH on [KyberSwap](https://kyberswap.com/swap) in late 2018, to begin my
investment but I know not a lot of people start with DAI.

 **So, where can I get some ETH?**

You need an exchange account to buy Ethereum like
[Coinbase](https://www.coinbase.com/) or
[Binance](https://www.binance.com/en). Remember, some of these services will
ask you for your bank details, so make sure you go ahead with legit websites.
You can also buy crypto using fiat in a peer to peer fashion using websites
like [localCryptos](https://localcryptos.com/).

> Fiat = Regular Currency like USD, AUD, INR etc.

Otherwise, when you click “Deposit” in Metamask extension, it also shows you a
few options to get ETH.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*OX1-HDy1bTHAfgdthqN7LA.png)

Getting some ETH shouldn’t be hard provided how rapidly the world is making
cryptos accessible to everyone (mostly!). **If you do get stuck at this stage,
let me know, and we’ll figure out a way to get you some ETH.**

# Step 3 — Get a Loan

When [I took a loan on MakerDAO for the first time](/instadapp/first-
loan-355d3c84d0ae), I understood why DeFi was way better than traditional
Finance. Here I used [InstaDApp](http://instadapp.io) to borrow a loan from
MakerDAO. I connected to the InstaDApps dashboard instantly and deposited 1
ETH and borrowed 45 DAI against it.

> Remember: Make sure you have sufficient amount of Eth in your Metamask
> wallet in order to process the transaction, about $5 worth of Eth should be
> enough.

 **How do I generate a loan?  
** As the name DeFi implies, everything works in a decentralized manner, all
transactions are managed by publicly available code (known as smart contracts)
on Ethereum Blockchain. There are several financial protocols — MakerDAO is
one of my favourite ones — it allows you to generate DAI (a USD pegged
stablecoin) by collateralising ETH. Does your bank do that? No? Hm.

Visit the [InstaDApp’s portal](https://instadapp.io/makermcd/) where you can
interact with [MakerDAO](http://makerdao.com) protocol in a completely
trustless manner. Make sure you have got the Metamask extension (as discussed
in Step 1)- otherwise, it will ask you to download.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*L4kZLoRVb4l4GLTeFCj3Iw.png)

[WalletConnect](https://walletconnect.org/) is also a good alternative option
if you want to connect any web3 mobile wallet like TrustWallet, Argent etc.

Now, deposit the amount of ETH; you would like to lock as collateral.
Remember, you can only take up to 2/3 of your collateral value as loan.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*yYvXLXB9gmU0SYGx2syYaQ.png)

Generate the amount of DAI, make sure you keep in mind the Debt/Collateral
Ratio. For starters, I recommend keeping it below 50% as we’re using MakerDAO
here today.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*yWPj30vofgAMocCU6yxpSg.png)

You get liquidated if your ratio goes above 66%.

What getting liquidated’ means here is that if your ratio goes above 66%, your
collateral (the ETH you deposited) is automatically sold to pay your debt (the
DAI you generated). So if ETH is $100, then I can withdraw~66 DAI as a loan
(which is 2/3 of the collateral value in USD).

 **No banks. No middlemen. No paperwork. Works 24x7x365. Just a few clicks and
you got your loan.**

# Step 4 — Start earning interest!

Once you’ve generated DAI, you can then supply it on to Compound Finance on
[InstaDApps portal](https://instadapp.io/compound/?isSmartWallet=1) and begin
earning interest in real-time! _Right now, at the time of writing_ , you can
earn about 8.4% annually. It’s insane, I know. Centralized organizations such
as banks are known to provide only up to 2.5% per year.

Go on to [Compound](https://instadapp.io/compound/?isSmartWallet=1), click on
Supply in DAIs box and enter the amount of DAI you want to supply.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*jIlWpbxtNtwVUdjT4I5JWA.png)

Enter the amount of DAI you want to supply

InstaDApp will ask you to provide “ **Allowance** ” in order to use your DAI.
So, once you provide Allowance by confirming on Metamask you’ll be able to
deposit DAI and begin earning interest.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/2000/1*5Gc6ycEgkYZzhkm6CIJkdw.png)

Provide Allowance

After confirming your transaction, you’ll begin earning interest in real-time!

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*E-U3bNDguKW7Ei-L1JZCQQ.png)

Once supplied, you will begin earning 8.44% interest (at the time of writing)

DeFi is transforming the way finance operates in the world today. Being
permissionless, fast, secure and transparent, Decentralized Finance is on its
journey to replacing the financial hurdles that we face in the world today
because of centralized entities.

 **Isn’t it pretty cool how we can facilitate financial transactions globally
without a third party with just the internet?**

# Last words

The adoption of blockchain technology and the spread of crypto-based financial
services would shape a new world of **Decentralised Finance**. This world
would be characterised by more extensive global accessibility to financial
services, safer transactions, and lower transaction costs.

Decentralised Finance is at a stage where the Internet was. Just like how the
internet democratised the world with knowledge, DeFi could help democratise
the financial system. **You know they say, candles did their job perfectly
well, but light bulbs do it better.**

It’s time for an evolution.

If you do get stuck anywhere, leave a response or hit me up on
[twitter](http://twitter.com/vishvadavee) or [send me an
email](mailto:vishva@instadapp.io), or join [InstaDApps telegram
group](https://t.me/instadapp) and I’ll help you get started.

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Instadapp](/instadapp?source=post_page-----
5d49da0c43f5--------------------------------)

Powerful DeFi Management Platform

[Read more from Instadapp](/instadapp?source=post_page-----
5d49da0c43f5--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![CoinTiger](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*9bjvwtB9KA6uhG1Umka7ag.png)](/@cointiger?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[CoinTiger

](/@cointiger?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

in

[CoinTiger

](https://medium.com/cointiger?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## MOONSTAR Will be Available on CoinTiger.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*224Zfs9dGXGE_cFHu3y8uw.jpeg)](/cointiger/moonstar-
will-be-available-on-cointiger-bc09979e0043?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[[![Picasso](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*SvAc-
iLQcDy6uv1Ow6qzzQ.jpeg)](/@Picasso_Network?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[Picasso

](/@Picasso_Network?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Mosaic as a primary pallet on Picasso

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*8XG5yB0sFljkVbf2)](/@Picasso_Network/mosaic-
as-a-primary-pallet-on-picasso-81129a1bd80?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Hearts
Crypto](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*XIO7awqKsodO2_1ahl8XRw.jpeg)](/@heartscrypto?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Hearts Crypto

](/@heartscrypto?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[InsiderFinance Wire

](https://medium.com/insiderfinance?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Tracking the Trend 01/08/2022

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*ysFVWxjHgDyMhzd4lccd9g.png)](/insiderfinance/tracking-
the-trend-01-08-2022-6600b3f222da?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![CoinTiger](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*9bjvwtB9KA6uhG1Umka7ag.png)](/@cointiger?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[CoinTiger

](/@cointiger?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

in

[CoinTiger

](https://medium.com/cointiger?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## TINC Will be Available on CoinTiger on 17 May.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*uRKd-71_Etdh6fda0GUFGw.jpeg)](/cointiger/tinc-
will-be-available-on-cointiger-
on-17-may-40688fd7d782?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![bitcointidings](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*WGnrwrzy6XfIL8lZ6Xi3OQ.png)](/@bitcointidings?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[bitcointidings

](/@bitcointidings?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Nigerian Agency Refuses Blockchain Start-Up Application — Says Tech Not
Recognized by Government

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*cNGRpqAqkQLH6-SZ)](/@bitcointidings/nigerian-
agency-refuses-blockchain-start-up-application-says-tech-not-recognized-by-
government-402fe633c043?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![CoinTiger](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*9bjvwtB9KA6uhG1Umka7ag.png)](/@cointiger?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[CoinTiger

](/@cointiger?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[CoinTiger

](https://medium.com/cointiger?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## TIGER Bank Adds GCR for Phase 12

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*16_mPDuTOiotjziiT8RqcA.png)](/cointiger/tiger-
bank-adds-gcr-for-phase-12-d31fda46507f?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![ATNET / Airdrops / Trading /
Tools](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*umn9pfc0gkteeaWKIn-
LEg.png)](/@atnet?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[ATNET / Airdrops / Trading / Tools

](/@atnet?source=post_internal_links---------6----------------------------)

in

[Cryptolounge

](https://medium.com/cryptolounge?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Exchange Promo Wednesday — Apr 27

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*WL1ry9KcL4_33iWkgVoejA.png)](/cryptolounge/exchange-
promo-wednesday-apr-27-8e57952b9b70?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Kommunitas](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*80tbsYxdhT5vlKX7A6o4LQ.png)](/@kommunitas?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Kommunitas

](/@kommunitas?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Kommunitas is Featured on Polygon Daily

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*EnDUWrNldyDgpfSQZDUQZA.jpeg)](/@kommunitas/kommunitas-
is-featured-on-polygon-daily-cdcf4611eea7?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----5d49da0c43f5--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
5d49da0c43f5--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
5d49da0c43f5--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
5d49da0c43f5--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
5d49da0c43f5--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----5d49da0c43f5--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----5d49da0c43f5--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Finstadapp%2Fhow-
to-get-started-with-defi-a-guide-from-huh-to-wow-5d49da0c43f5&source=post_page
--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Vishva
Dave](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*LKfdY9Z0dQ2X4d95Pq6LRw.jpeg)](/@vishvad)

[

## Vishva Dave

](/@vishvad)

191 Followers

Web3, Crypto and Decentralisation. Forever a learner. Vegan.

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F8cc57037b3af&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Finstadapp%2Fhow-
to-get-started-with-defi-a-guide-from-huh-to-
wow-5d49da0c43f5&newsletterV3=e0392d5b2712&newsletterV3Id=8cc57037b3af&user=Vishva+Dave&userId=e0392d5b2712&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![VRMETA](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*yh6mIYVyOpbQyjolz_Sg4g.jpeg)](/@vrmeta?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------f4ebcf16_2c37_4158_b3f5_49659cfc98b0-------)

[VRMETA

](/@vrmeta?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
f4ebcf16_2c37_4158_b3f5_49659cfc98b0-------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------f4ebcf16_2c37_4158_b3f5_49659cfc98b0-------)

## Samurai Saga: Market Analysis and why Samurai Saga will Thrive

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*dYBXaYdelwsLsnIh9ZWqVQ.png)](/coinmonks/samurai-
saga-market-analysis-and-why-samurai-saga-will-
thrive-4d5f1d553004?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
f4ebcf16_2c37_4158_b3f5_49659cfc98b0-------)

[[![Hassan
Zafran](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@hassanprince36?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------f4ebcf16_2c37_4158_b3f5_49659cfc98b0-------)

[Hassan Zafran

](/@hassanprince36?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
f4ebcf16_2c37_4158_b3f5_49659cfc98b0-------)

## Updates on bots mitigation measures — April gas fee burn and gas price
reduction

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*jZZe5mdnCu7ODawc.jpeg)](/@hassanprince36/updates-
on-bots-mitigation-measures-april-gas-fee-burn-and-gas-price-
reduction-528efec057b3?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
f4ebcf16_2c37_4158_b3f5_49659cfc98b0-------)

[[![Dohrnii
DAO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Okuglgvtum3kKKTPy36BGg.png)](/@dohrnii?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------f4ebcf16_2c37_4158_b3f5_49659cfc98b0-------)

[Dohrnii DAO

](/@dohrnii?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
f4ebcf16_2c37_4158_b3f5_49659cfc98b0-------)

## What Is A DAO And How Does It Work?

![What is a DAO, Dohrnii
DAO](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*pcs45e6tm_LpuHCA)](/@dohrnii/what-
is-a-dao-and-how-does-it-work-db8b649a9637?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------f4ebcf16_2c37_4158_b3f5_49659cfc98b0-------)

[[![Victor Kelechi
Kingsley](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*-lqdBbczsmlf54nT-03R3A.jpeg)](/@officialmrawesome?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------f4ebcf16_2c37_4158_b3f5_49659cfc98b0-------)

[Victor Kelechi Kingsley

](/@officialmrawesome?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
f4ebcf16_2c37_4158_b3f5_49659cfc98b0-------)

## " While we were absent minded, a virus has eaten deep into Crypto and will
soon take all your money.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*fzc5GKs7KaCUEsRhZ09DnA.jpeg)](/@officialmrawesome/while-
we-were-absent-minded-a-virus-has-eaten-deep-into-crypto-and-will-soon-take-
all-your-money-dfb7572ac32d?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------f4ebcf16_2c37_4158_b3f5_49659cfc98b0-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

