![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/how-to-start-using-orchid-with-oxt/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/how-to-start-using-orchid-with-oxt/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/how-to-start-using-orchid-with-oxt/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/how-to-start-using-orchid-with-oxt/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/how-to-start-using-orchid-with-oxt/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/how-to-start-using-orchid-with-oxt/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![How To Start Using Orchid With
OXT](/static/7d4e9f1efc0c4a5cff60698b8394cee8/Orchid_BlogImage_HowOrchid.jpg)

# How To Start Using Orchid With OXT

Feb 20, 2020  
  

Orchid is a privacy network that offers the functionality of a VPN, and more.
It provides access to a network of VPN providers that you can switch between,
allows you to pay only for the bandwidth you use, and lets you share your
account with an unlimited number of people and devices. Our goal is for Orchid
users to feel confident exploring the Internet freely, without their online
activity being tracked, censored or logged. Here we walk you through the steps
required to activate your Orchid account and link it to the mobile app.

**Adding an existing account**

If you have a QR code for an existing account that someone shared with you,
you can skip down to step four and simply open the app and scan/paste in the
code to add the account. Your VPN service will then be paid for from that
account.

**Setting up a new Orchid account**

An Orchid account consists of OXT that has been moved into the Orchid
nanopayment smart contract. Once the account is set up, anyone with access to
the account can send nanopayments backed by OXT in that account and get VPN
service in the app. This means an unlimited number of people and devices can
share a single account.

Setting up the account requires enough ETH to pay for 'gas', so creating an
Orchid account requires both OXT and ETH digital currencies.

**Step One: Load the Orchid Account DApp:**

Your gateway to funding Orchid is
[account.orchid.com](https://account.orchid.com/). The webpage is a
web3-enabled front end that interfaces with the Orchid nanopayment contract.
Account.orchid.com must be loaded with the Metamask plugin enabled or from
your wallet's DApp browser.

You need the OXT digital currency to fund an Orchid account and pay providers
for bandwidth. You will also need a small amount of ETH to pay for the two
Ethereum transactions required to set up your Orchid account. Since the value
of both of these amounts relies heavily on market conditions, the OXT and ETH
needed will vary. To determine the amounts you will need in order to
successfully fund your account, the Orchid DApp provides a base recommendation
of values for a 50% efficient account. Efficiency is a metric that denotes how
much of the funds spent from your wallet are going to pay for service vs
paying for transaction costs by setting the size and number of your lottery
contract tickets. The dapp provides real-time recommendations using current
market dynamics for the amount of currency required. In the DApp interface,
you may adjust the efficiency slider as well your deposit/balance totals until
you have an account composed to your liking.

_Remember: You only pay for the service you use, so turning Orchid off turns
off the tap of OXT being spent from your Orchid account._

**Step Two: Add OXT & ETH to a web-3 Ethereum wallet:**

Using the recommendations given by the Orchid Account DApp, you will now need
to acquire the OXT and ETH to fund your account.
[Coinbase](https://www.coinbase.com/price/orchid), Binance, Gemini and many
other digital currency exchanges list both OXT and ETH. OXT is also available
via Uniswap.

Every Orchid account requires an Ethereum wallet from which the account is
funded. We recommend setting up a new Ethereum wallet for Orchid that is not
associated with other Ethereum services you may use. We support a number of
wallets, but some may work better than others depending on your setup. We
recommend using the Metamask browser plugin to set up your Orchid account on a
laptop or desktop.

Our full list of tested wallets:

  1. [Metamask](https://metamask.io/): Our recommendation is to use the Metamask Chrome plug-in from a laptop or desktop.
  2. [Trust Wallet](https://trustwallet.com/): Works on Android and iOS. No desktop client.
  3. [Coinbase Wallet](https://wallet.coinbase.com/): Works on Android and iOS. Might lose dapp/web3 functions soon on iOS.

We recommend setting up a new wallet for use with Orchid for privacy. [Learn
more.](https://www.orchid.com/faq#orchid-app--why-new-wallet)

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

Move your OXT and ETH to the new wallet you have set up. If you used Coinbase
to earn or purchase your OXT and ETH, go into Coinbase and do a "send" to the
Ethereum wallet's address. Moving both the OXT and ETH will cost a tiny amount
of ETH in gas. You will need both in your wallet to create an Orchid account.

**Step Three: Fund your Orchid account**

Returning to the Orchid Account DApp
([account.orchid.com](https://account.orchid.com/)), you can transfer funds
between your wallet and Orchid. This is also where you can top-up your account
balance or withdraw your funds after you have created an account and linked it
to the app.

_Note: the Orchid account interface is the only way to add or remove funds
from your Orchid account. Never send funds directly into the contract from
your wallet -- they will be lost._

Read the text on the account.orchid.com page. The page is responsive and will
tell you if you need to add more OXT or ETH to your wallet for account
creation. Once ready, you can click or tap on the purple "Transfer Available
OXT:" button. This will initiate 2 transactions, which you will need to
approve.

_Note: we recommend editing the transaction fee and paying extra ETH for
"fast" so that the Orchid account is created within 30-60 seconds. Paying for
slow may cause the transactions to hang. Once your account is created, a QR
code will appear on the page. If you don't see the QR code on the "Overview"
page, you can find it by clicking on the "More" link in the upper right of the
page and selecting "Info." From there you can see your account balance as well
as your QR code._

**Step Four: Add your Orchid account to the app**

To add your newly created Orchid account, simply open the app and press the QR
code icon when you see a text bubble pop up. If the bubble doesn't appear,
select "New Hop" on the home screen and then "I have a QR code" from the "Add
Hop" screen.

Once you scan the QR code, the app will create a hop using the associated
Orchid account and your default curator settings. You will be taken to a "hop
information" screen showing your saved information. Using the "Share Orchid
Account" button, you can pop a QR code and share the Orchid account you just
imported with other people or devices. Press the back arrow to get back to the
main screen.

From the main screen, tap the toggle in the upper right to turn Orchid on.

**Step Five: Use Orchid to explore the Internet**

Now, on the app's Status tab, just hit the big "on" button, and that's it.
You're ready to start exploring freely. Your account is funded with the OXT
you sent to it. When you turn the VPN service on, the app will issue tickets
that are backed by this digital currency. Bandwidth providers can prove that
these tickets are valid and offer their service to you. Orchid's system of
probabilistic nanopayments means that your balance will decline at a
probabilistic rate. You can top up your account with additional OXT as needed.

Stay curious out there!

**Get involved with Orchid**

Stay in touch and up to date at orchid.com, or through our social channels:

GitHub: [OrchidTechnologies](https://github.com/orchidtechnologies)

Facebook: [OrchidProtocol](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)

Telegram: [OrchidOfficial](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)

Thank you for being part of the Orchid community.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [VPN](/tag/vpn/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22How%20To%20Start%20Using%20Orchid%20With%20OXT%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fhow-
to-start-using-orchid-with-oxt%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fhow-
to-start-using-orchid-with-oxt%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fhow-
to-start-using-orchid-with-oxt%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/starting-today-it-only-costs-1-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

#### Starting today, it only costs $1 to get started with Orchid

](/starting-today-it-only-costs-1-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

Mar 25, 2021

](/get-started-with-orchid-on-android-for-just-1/)

[

#### Get started with Orchid on Android for just $1

](/get-started-with-orchid-on-android-for-just-1/)

May 24, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-kucoin/)

[

#### OXT is listed on KuCoin

](/oxt-is-listed-on-kucoin/)

Sep 13, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

