[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/7bad4ac25688&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Colliderventures](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*vxdi2lXSJTXzlSEYISfFpg.jpeg)](https://medium.com/colliderventures?source=post_page
-----7bad4ac25688--------------------------------)

Published in

[Colliderventures

](https://medium.com/colliderventures?source=post_page-----
7bad4ac25688--------------------------------)

[![Collider
Ventures](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*vxdi2lXSJTXzlSEYISfFpg.jpeg)](/@collidervc?source=post_page
-----7bad4ac25688--------------------------------)

[Collider Ventures](/@collidervc?source=post_page-----
7bad4ac25688--------------------------------)

Follow

Sep 30, 2020

·

6 min read

# Welcoming IDEX to the Collider Ventures family

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*HHc3LNlk4rbbFnI9sd-j5w.png)

We’re thrilled to finally announce publicly that Collider Ventures had
invested strategically in IDEX! We believe in the team and see IDEX 2.0 as a
unique hybrid between centralized and decentralized exchange platform. IDEX
joins Collider’s strong venture portfolio and we’re excited to start seeing
synergy between the companies we partner with.

## Background and History of IDEX

IDEX was established in 2017 by brothers Alex Wearn (CEO) & Philip Wearn
(COO). After launching in the fall of that year and with Jason Ahmad (CTO)
joining shortly after, IDEX quickly became the #1 DEX and DApp on the Ethereum
network. With over $2 billion worth of trades spread across 300k users, IDEX
holds the notorious achievement of having the [largest state on
Ethereum](https://blog.idex.io/all-posts/idex-20-no-compromises), consuming 1%
of the network capacity.

IDEX came in at the perfect timing with its launch, they had innovated on
bringing the security and openness of a decentralized exchange, without
compromising on the speed and user experience (UX) of a centralised exchange.

## IDEX 1.0

The first version — IDEX 1.0 had solved these issues by centralizing trade
execution, allowing the user to see their balance update in real-time, while
maintaining auditability with on-chain trade settlement.

The offering IDEX 1.0 brought to the market was unique and appealing and
evidently led to monumental growth and adoption. The cost of this success were
the accumulated costs and limitations in scalability. Each trade was
individually settled on the network, each with an associated gas fee. With an
average cost of $0.10-$10, depending on network conditions, IDEX users alone
paid a whopping $4.3 million in gas fees in 2018. Limitations in scalability
also arose with only five IDEX 1.0 trades occurring each second. The team was
well aware of these inherent challenges and started innovating on a solution
which would reduce the frequency of these transactions by bundling the
settlement of trades.

# Enter IDEX 2.0

The IDEX 1.0 experience was sufficient for the early days where demand was
still limited and users were willing to compromise on user experience for a
non-custodial solution. However, this position was increasingly harder to
justify with increasing demand for the product and leading to slower
performance.

The solution: IDEX 2.0, a layer-2 network which allowed for the settlement of
an infinite number of trades in one transaction thereby allowing for
indefinite scaling.

## Decentralization

When people say “decentralization”, a few aspects usually come to mind; for
IDEX the important ones are self-custody, or enough flexibility in
custodianship and the detection of unfair trading.

 **Custody**

In terms of custody flexibility, when using IDEX, people will be locking their
funds on a layer-1 smart contract, starting with Ethereum, but adding more
layer-1 chains over time. This will allow traders to use a custodian of their
choice or choose to go with a full self-custody option.

Once locked in the smart contract, IDEX layer-2 records the amounts of funds,
to whom they belong and the trades they’ve entered. The matching engine and
order book are run in a centralized fashion, but they are recorded on layer-2
and settled on layer-1 every constant amount of minutes (layer-1 settlement
time frame proposed to be between 10–30 minutes and can be adjusted according
to user needs and changing market fees or other conditions).

## Fair Play

IDEX’s layer-2 is a slightly delayed view of the IDEX 2.0’s centralized
database, allowing users to log the API data and compare that to what’s
written on layer-2. This is what makes it possible to have a proof of
execution and proof of funds.

## Token Mechanics

The IDEX token is used as a collateral for staking and verifying, with a
mechanism in place to enter disputes.

The IDEX token consists of a supply of 1 billion token of which 50% will be
used to accelerate the adoption of the network, with 40% allocated to programs
such as market maker rewards to subsidize the growth of the network and 10%
will be for IDEX memberships. The remaining 50% of IDEX is allocated as such:
25% for the founding team, 10% for the future employee token pool, 10% for
future use and 5% for the expenses IDEX, a business, has.

IDEX tokens are critical in the aligning of the incentive structure of the
exchange and the IDEX token stakers. In remuneration for providing the IDEX
network with security and operational resources, stakers are awarded 50% of
trade fees. Stakers can be of two types of nodes. Tier 1 nodes are responsible
for holding a real-time copy of the system ledger and for auditing the layer-2
network for fraudulent activity. They are further aligned by being awarded
more tokens for correctly activating fraud proofs. Tier 2 provides API service
allowing cold storage staking with no slashing risk. More on that[
here](/idex/youre-invited-take-the-idex-2-0-demo-for-a-test-
drive-500d528ec275)

## User Experience

Sometimes “decentralization” resembles privacy in terms of UX: people
generally understand the importance, but when it comes to convenience, users
often opt to centralized social networks that know everything about us. IDEX
has traded some of the decentralization in favor of consumer application
grade.

In IDEX 2.0 the order book and matching engine are centralized. This gives
professional players such as trading firms low latency, high throughput,
hundreds of thousands transactions per second, any and all types of orders and
institutional grade API standards.

IDEX believes in decentralization and is committed to maximizing it. IDEX 2.0
is where the sweet spot of UX, efficiency and decentralization is with current
technology considering the scalability of layer-1s, and their
interoperability, leaving a partially centralized core is set to strike a
balance between consumer application UX and the decentralization ideals. We’re
looking forward for IDEX 3.0 to bring even higher degrees of decentralization
while maintaining institutional grade UX.

# Why We Invested

## Thesis-Driven

Exchanges are probably the most validated and battle-tested business model in
the crypto space, yet our fund was officially launched mid-2019, a time in
which hundreds of exchanges were already in existence and the majority of them
struggling. To invest in an exchange we had to find a team that brings
something new to this crowded market segment.

## The DEX Space

Decentralized exchanges are a great opportunity, but we felt that with the
current tech it’s not feasible to build an exchange with the specs and
experience pro-traders are used to, while still being fully decentralized and
supporting multiple assets. A UniSwap-type experience better suits the DEX
space, where users don’t expect to have HFT and special order types.

 **Pragmatism**

In that sense, IDEX 2.0 was a great fit for Collider’s thesis. IDEX team
understands the compromises between decentralization and user experience.
Collider and IDEX both want to advance this Blockchain and crypto space, while
being pragmatic and catering for a broad user base; this balance and
understanding presented to Collider the differentiating approach we were
looking for.

We also see IDEX bringing forward and integrating many DeFi products in the
future, and being used by those products either directly, or in-directly
through market makers.

IDEX is a great fit in terms of Collider’s portfolio composition, and we are
already seeing a few ways in which Collider adds value to IDEX through our
assets, portfolio companies, and ventures network.

We are excited to join forces with IDEX’s existing community and great
investors such as [G1](https://www.linkedin.com/company/g1vc), [Borderless
Capital](https://medium.com/u/554e3c0c6258?source=post_page-----
7bad4ac25688--------------------------------), and
[Gnosis](https://medium.com/u/e7281ad70ea?source=post_page-----
7bad4ac25688--------------------------------), and back [Alex
Wearn](https://medium.com/u/1b803772e078?source=post_page-----
7bad4ac25688--------------------------------), [Philip
Wearn](https://medium.com/u/6384ea108f35?source=post_page-----
7bad4ac25688--------------------------------), Jason, and the rest of the team
in their journey building important utilities for the future of finance.

## Learn More about Collider Ventures

  * Website: [www.collider.vc](https://www.collider.vc/)
  * Twitter: <https://twitter.com/collidervc>
  * LinkedIn: <https://www.linkedin.com/company/colliderventures/>
  * Facebook: <https://www.facebook.com/colliderventures/>

## Learn More about IDEX

  * Website: <https://idex.io/>
  * Exchange: <https://idex.market/eth/idex>
  * Twitter: <https://twitter.com/idexio>
  * Facebook: <https://www.facebook.com/IDEX.io/>
  * LinkedIn: <https://www.linkedin.com/company/decentralized-capital/>
  * Medium: <https://medium.com/idex/>

_The information above is provided for informational purposes only and shall
not be construed as investment advice or as requests to engage in investment
operations. Neither should it be construed as recommendations or advice on
legal or regulatory aspects._

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Colliderventures](/colliderventures?source=post_page-----
7bad4ac25688--------------------------------)

Collider Ventures — Full stack blockchain and crypto investment group

[Read more from Colliderventures](/colliderventures?source=post_page-----
7bad4ac25688--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![CryptoInsight](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*hB9twWYKtIJ-
grXhP_Ge7w.jpeg)](/@CryptooInsight?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[CryptoInsight

](/@CryptooInsight?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Ever wondered how @terra_money‘s $UST <> $LUNA mint/burn mechanism works?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*a6djhf0nxTQRrfeGS9OJSg.jpeg)](/@CryptooInsight/ever-
wondered-how-terra-money-s-ust-luna-mint-burn-mechanism-
works-14f8b17af3ae?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![SuperBonds](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*jhRYmVllHMPZd9WN4Gq2WQ.png)](/@superbonds?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[SuperBonds

](/@superbonds?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## SuperBonds Gears up for a Big 2022

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*fPRf2ZX-
tKT2o-or)](/@superbonds/superbonds-gears-up-for-a-
big-2022-9180a053c8d7?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Art
Caruso](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*J7V7n_oJY-7S7zBj7ERdQg.jpeg)](/@artcaruso?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Art Caruso

](/@artcaruso?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Latest updates — Ethereum Price SHOCK Coming

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*s617MVkEKZ_0ZWwitUtjNg.jpeg)](/coinmonks/latest-
updates-ethereum-price-shock-coming-dd6b39f1a827?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[[![OfficialMazzuma](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*BqkYWWw-e9zWOwKyV5c_nA.png)](/@MazzumaSM?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[OfficialMazzuma

](/@MazzumaSM?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Community Update; Hello December

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*M4e_7sHaMUAFbsfvVeSK9g.jpeg)](/@MazzumaSM/community-
update-hello-december-cf6607e4d387?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Art
Caruso](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*J7V7n_oJY-7S7zBj7ERdQg.jpeg)](/@artcaruso?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Art Caruso

](/@artcaruso?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

in

[CoinMarkets

](https://medium.com/coinmarkets?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## TOP 10 Metaverse Projects! Top Metaverse Coins

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*jA8YffuRpEtZDfdzhREhJQ.jpeg)](/coinmarkets/top-10-metaverse-
project-top-metaverse-coins-d4498d4898cd?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![StealthEX.io](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*_xi1XO9befSne5l2f1z0ow.png)](/@stealthex-
io?source=post_internal_links---------5----------------------------)

[StealthEX.io

](/@stealthex-io?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## How To Mine Litecoin?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*K6IeDYBPdvNIVojw.png)](/@stealthex-
io/how-to-mine-litecoin-f02710754e67?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Crypterium](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*AeT2vNcTUW74UMy1Du0ugw.jpeg)](/@crypterium?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Crypterium

](/@crypterium?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[Crypterium

](https://medium.com/crypterium?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Crypto Daily: Uniswap Airdrop and New Ethereum Growth

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*9-dUBFdfr2TQFyOBecMVag.jpeg)](/crypterium/crypto-
daily-uniswap-airdrop-and-new-ethereum-growth-
ba108242b715?source=post_internal_links---------6----------------------------)

[[![Bitget](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*T1_IdeVuiEx3jionDSvjAA.jpeg)](/@bitgetglobal?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Bitget

](/@bitgetglobal?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

in

[BitgetGlobal

](https://medium.com/bitgetglobal?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Bitget Newly Listed Coin: SUSHI

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*m8fYQ_BU3VEiGXrMnxjJSQ.png)](/bitgetglobal/bitget-
newly-listed-coin-sushi-145691936b07?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----7bad4ac25688--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
7bad4ac25688--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
7bad4ac25688--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
7bad4ac25688--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
7bad4ac25688--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----7bad4ac25688--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----7bad4ac25688--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcolliderventures%2Fidex-2-0-collider-
portfolio-update-7bad4ac25688&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Collider
Ventures](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*vxdi2lXSJTXzlSEYISfFpg.jpeg)](/@collidervc)

[

## Collider Ventures

](/@collidervc)

5 Followers

Collider is full stack blockchain & crypto venture fund.

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fusers%2F7ac4d94e057%2Flazily-enable-
writer-
subscription&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcolliderventures%2Fidex-2-0-collider-
portfolio-
update-7bad4ac25688&user=Collider+Ventures&userId=7ac4d94e057&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Luka Kovačević](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Lznn9NL-
EzQRXNb4AjVDaA.png)](/@blacksmithbl?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------e28f5a6c_0daa_4711_a4d4_3cd3d5e8f0c1-------)

[Luka Kovačević

](/@blacksmithbl?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
e28f5a6c_0daa_4711_a4d4_3cd3d5e8f0c1-------)

## THE DOPE WOLVES OF OASIS

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*A5kemDFi_tVr4joXk07VYw.jpeg)](/@blacksmithbl/the-
dope-wolves-of-oasis-89c0a92b2b65?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------e28f5a6c_0daa_4711_a4d4_3cd3d5e8f0c1-------)

[[![Danny
P](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*KiFQVRKnl-d6Or1yMp49ig.jpeg)](/@ddannyp?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------e28f5a6c_0daa_4711_a4d4_3cd3d5e8f0c1-------)

[Danny P

](/@ddannyp?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
e28f5a6c_0daa_4711_a4d4_3cd3d5e8f0c1-------)

## How to make *holds up hands* this many dollars; from the perspective of a
3-month-old baby.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*QYu0qW1Lr3xOAB2kKFnOjA.jpeg)](/@ddannyp/how-
to-make-holds-up-hands-this-many-dollars-from-the-perspective-of-a-3-month-
old-baby-49875254c015?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
e28f5a6c_0daa_4711_a4d4_3cd3d5e8f0c1-------)

[[![Gero
News](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*h0Vvuua5KpaZlTtw4MkvXg.png)](/@geronews624?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------e28f5a6c_0daa_4711_a4d4_3cd3d5e8f0c1-------)

[Gero News

](/@geronews624?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
e28f5a6c_0daa_4711_a4d4_3cd3d5e8f0c1-------)

## Wise is Crypto with ConfidenceAudited, Decentralized & Fair.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*cfgikIL10gkHY5C42LzIkA.png)](/@geronews624/wise-
is-crypto-with-confidenceaudited-decentralized-
fair-13b2d5cbaa1c?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
e28f5a6c_0daa_4711_a4d4_3cd3d5e8f0c1-------)

[[![Elizabeth Lim](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*13uA893jC2np7UwUqv-
k-A.jpeg)](/@elizabethlim.ilj?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------e28f5a6c_0daa_4711_a4d4_3cd3d5e8f0c1-------)

[Elizabeth Lim

](/@elizabethlim.ilj?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
e28f5a6c_0daa_4711_a4d4_3cd3d5e8f0c1-------)

## I got love-scammed on Tinder for over $120,000 in a week

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*u_N5mSc_Cdf2imtacD37wA.jpeg)](/@elizabethlim.ilj/i-got-
love-scammed-on-tinder-for-over-120-000-in-a-week-
fdc38dddef20?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
e28f5a6c_0daa_4711_a4d4_3cd3d5e8f0c1-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

