[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# In association with Outlier Ventures Smart Dubai unveils ‘Dubai
Decentralized Data’

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

In association with Outlier Ventures Smart Dubai unveils ‘Dubai Decentralized
Data’

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

May 2019

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

_‘Dubai Decentralized Data’ is the_ f _irst step towards decentralised and
truly open data infrastructure. The sandbox will enable enterprises and city
stakeholders to derive value from Dubai’s data to create apps that improve
people’s lives_

_Smart Dubai to experiment with ‘full stack’ of decentralised technologies
including Sovrin, Ocean Protocol and Fetch.AI_

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/SmartCities_Social-22-300x300.jpg)

Smart Dubai, the government office charged with facilitating Dubai’s citywide
smart transformation, today launched a research report signaling its intention
to make its data strategy the most forward thinking in the world. Dubai is
planning to launch ‘Decentralised Data for Dubai’, a programme that will see
the creation of an open data ‘Sandbox’ built using a range of decentralised
technologies from the Outlier Ventures ‘Convergence Stack’, potentially
including Sovrin, Ocean Protocol and Fetch.AI. The move lays the foundation
for Dubai’s citizens to benefit from an explosion of innovation from open
data, made accessible to an increasingly diverse range of active participants
in the city data market.

Decentralised Data for Dubai was conceived following a research report into
smart city development undertaken jointly between Smart Dubai and Outlier
Ventures. The findings of the report underlined the opportunities presented by
the convergence of emerging technologies such as AI, DLT and IoT to transform
city services for citizens and enterprises. Cryptographically assured open
networks were found to be the vital enabler for delivering the next stage of
open data infrastructure.

Younus Al Nasser, Assistant Director-General, Smart Dubai, and Chief Executive
Officer, Smart Dubai Data commented: _“Cities such as Dubai are ideally placed
to help stakeholders strike the right balance between data that are owned and
controlled centrally, and more dispersed models.”_ He continued: _“We intend
to move carefully and confidently towards a future in which open data
repositories like our own Dubai Pulse Platform Data will combine with
decentralised technologies such as blockchain, open data marketplaces and
‘digital agents/representatives’ to put data in the hands of those who will
create genuine societal and economic value from it.”_

Smart Dubai Data, the organisation tasked with unleashing the maximum value
from the Emirate’s data, will be heavily involved in the creation of
Decentralised Data for Dubai. The new programme will bring public and private
sector organisations together with a selection of decentralised protocols to
create the open data Sandbox, offering developers completely open access to
Dubai’s data so they can build exciting new services. The initiative will be
supported by a range of working groups and a two day hackathon that challenges
developers to build prototypes (further details to be announced).

Smart Dubai Data will take a broad and thorough approach to working with the
market on its journey towards adopting decentralised approaches. The
Decentralised Data for Dubai Sandbox will be part of this, in which a number
of decentralised protocols will be explored, including Ocean Protocol for
decentralised data exchange, the Sovrin Foundation for decentralised identity
management and Fetch.AI, a provider of a ‘decentralised digital world’ and
‘digital agent’ technology. Ocean, Sovrin and Fetch.AI are all Outlier
Ventures portfolio companies and form part of the ‘Convergence Stack’, a set
of complementary base layer protocols that can work in unison to compete
effectively with today’s underlying web technology.

Jamie Burke, CEO, Outlier Ventures added: _“Today’s web has evolved in a
direction its creators didn’t foresee. It’s an economic model policy makers
and the world at large are now realising is sub-optimal, unsustainable and one
that holds back innovation. Decentralised Data for Dubai is a bold move by
Smart Dubai that signals its belief in the potential of truly open data to
unleash economic and societal value.”_ He continued: _“At Outlier we believe
the Convergence Stack will drastically expedite the adoption of Web 3.0 making
data usable by a wider number of participants so innovation can flourish and
economic value can be realised right the way across the data ecosystem.”_

The move makes Dubai the first city in the world to signal its intention to
transition to a data infrastructure capable of delivering a truly open and
equitable data strategy for the benefits of its citizens.

To download the ‘Convergence in smart cities’ report please visit
<https://outlierventures.io/research/decentralised-and-open-data-turns-dubai-
into-a-smart-city/>

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Screen-
Shot-2019-05-02-at-10.48.45.png)

Posted by Lawrence Lundy - May 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

May 2019

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/asm-and-ov-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-asm/) [Why we
invested in Altered State Machine (ASM)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-
invested-in-asm/)

April 2022  
Jamie Burke

[ ![OutlierVenturesInvestsinLumerin](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/03/why-we-invested-in-lumerin-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-lumerin/) [Why
we invested in Lumerin](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-
lumerin/)

March 2022  
Jamie Burke

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

