For better experience, please enable JavaScript.

[Multicoin Capital](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * Media
  * More
  * [Contact](/contact/)

![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

  * [English](/2020/02/06/infinite-scale/)
  * [中文](/zh/2020/02/06/infinite-scale/)
  * [한국어](/ko/2020/02/06/infinite-scale/)
  * 日本語

![](data:image/png;base64,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)

### Search posts

dark mode

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

  * [Archives](https://github.com/multicoincapital/crypto-archives)
  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)

[Writing](/blog/category/blog/)

## Infinite Scale

By [Kyle Samani](/about#225b2112-7be1-5fc9-8755-db7e245ba5a5)

February 06, 2020 | 14 minute read

![Copy URL to clipboard
button](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

Today, the vast majority of economic activity is conducted via corporations.
Corporations were invented in the 1400s, with the first versions manifesting
as joint-stock companies. Capital structures, limited liability, and other
parameters have evolved since then, but the fundamental premise of the
corporation as the conduit to facilitate economic activity remains largely
unchanged.

In 2009 Satoshi Nakamoto invented a new way to organize large scale economic
activity— without the need for a centralized corporation. In time, historians
will look back on the invention of Bitcoin as one of the most important
breakthroughs coordinating human behavior at scale.

Bitcoin’s Proof-of-Work (POW) mining makes this possible by encoding an
incentive system in software that is enforced by all participants running the
Bitcoin software. Millions of independent, economically-motivated actors
respond to the incentives codified in the Bitcoin software. There is not a
central authority coordinating this activity (unlike Uber, AirBnB, or eBay).

Today, the scale of the POW mining industry—which includes several multi
billion dollar companies—is testament to the success and scale of this new
model for coordinating economic activity. There is no reason to believe that
we’re close to the limits of this model either. In fact, as I’ll argue
throughout this essay, we’re on the cusp of applying this model to hundreds of
new markets.

### Scaling Web2 Infrastructure

Over the last 15 years, the tech industry has developed sets of tools and
technologies to enable cloud services to scale to serve billions of people.
However, the process for scaling is by no means simple. As systems grow from
serving 1,000 to 1,000,000 to 1,000,000,000 users, they are re-architected
several times. This is now widely accepted as best practice because
engineering a system for 1B users is simply overkill when there are only 1M
users using the service.

A number of companies have built platforms that auto-magically scale specific
functions from 0 to millions of users of users (without requiring application
developers to think about it). One of the first attempts at this was
[Ning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ning_\(website) "Ning"), a company that
Marc Andreessen founded in 2005. Ning aimed to make it
[trivial](https://pmarchive.com/three_kinds_of_platforms_you_meet_on_the_internet.html
"Three Kinds of Platforms Your Meet On The Internet ") for developers to build
social media applications that could scale to millions of users.

More recently, Amazon has taken this idea of auto-magical scaling to its
logical extreme in the form of AWS [Lambda](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/
"Lambda"). In the Lambda model, developers don’t build and scale applications
on servers that they control; instead, they just write function calls that
perform specific computations, chron jobs, and database operations. Lambda
then automatically scales those function calls on demand (and bills the
developer per function call). It’s a radical new model for scaling cloud
applications both technically—by reducing complexity for developers—and
therefore unlocks a new business model for developers (no need to pay for
unutilized server capacity).

But, Lambda is subject to quite a few [technical
limitations](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg//limits.html "Lambda
docs"), in addition to being a fundamentally permissioned system (which breaks
function composability across developers).

While Lambda is awesome, it doesn’t quite fulfill its stated vision of “write
a function once, scale infinitely.” There are a lot of caveats, and a lot of
things that Lambda simply cannot do.

### The Crypto-Economic Infinite Scale Architecture

The foundation of all crypto networks is the encoding of incentives (and
disincentives) into software in order to facilitate large-scale collaboration
among distrusting parties without a centralized, coordinating entity. This is
what makes these systems trust-minimized.

In abstract, this framing presents a novel way to scale function calls
infinitely: design a crypto-economic game to incentivize rational, economical-
driven actors to perform function calls for people who are calling those
functions, thereby allowing the supply-side of the network to self-organize to
fulfill the demand.

POW mining is the first large-scale incarnation of this idea. This can be
generalized to all BFT consensus algorithms intended to run in permissionless
settings, including Proof-of-Stake systems. But this framework isn’t just
useful for adding entries to the end of a ledger in a permissionless setting.
It can be generalized to support many types of useful function calls.

The challenge in building these self-organizing systems is designing the
crypto-economic game such that the protocol rewards honest actors and punishes
malicious and lazy actors.

POW was the first self-organizing system because it’s the simplest economic
game to design and implement: POW protocols don’t have to encode any penalties
for malicious or lazy actors at all (because POW externalizes these costs
outside of the protocol in the form of electricity consumption). However, for
other types of more useful functions, verifying both honest behavior (to
reward those actors) and dishonest behavior (to punish those actors) is far
more complex than just verifying a POW hash.

This paradigm is generally applicable to many off-chain services (e.g., The
Graph and Livepeer) and on-chain protocols (e.g., Uniswap, Compound, and
Maker) as described in the [Web3
Stack](https://multicoin.capital/2019/12/13/the-web3-stack-2019-edition/ "The
Web3 Stack 2019 Edition "). It also applies to novel consensus systems (e.g.
Arweave and Helium).

Below I’ll highlight four examples: two off-chain services, and two novel
consensus layer implementations. All four of these examples are useful,
mostly-fungible, commodity services (as opposed to just adding entries to the
end of a ledger).

[The Graph](https://thegraph.com/ "The Graph") is a protocol for indexing and
querying data from Ethereum, IPFS, and other Web3 data sources. Assuming that
blockchains become critical pieces of infrastructure for the world, consumers
and businesses will query these systems trillions of times per day. In the
Web2 model, building a system to support this level of scale is
extraordinarily difficult.

Traditionally, companies built centralized services and scaled them out the
old fashioned way: by hiring lots of programmers, dev-ops teams, and managing
a bunch of databases. They’d spend millions of hours architecting and re-
architecting the system to optimize performance and cost.

In the Web3 model, The Graph team is building a crypto-economic game that 1)
incentivizes independent, rational actors to store and index subsets of a
massive dataset, 2) helps users of this service figure out which actors are
storing each subsets, 3) ensures that these query providers are returning
valid responses (not returning false results), and 4) facilitates payment.

While there are lots of subtleties in designing this game, there are two major
classes of problems: 1) What happens if indexers (people who run the queries)
are unable to service all the demand, and 2) what happens if indexers return
false results?

In the case where demand outstrips supply, market participants - both existing
indexers and outsiders - will observe this in real time by monitoring payment
flows on the blockchain. Those who have excess resources (or who can easily
acquire rent resources from Amazon) will download and run The Graph software,
register themselves on The Graph’s smart contract to become discoverable,
index in-demand datasets, and begin processing queries for users. This entire
cycle will play out over the course of just a few minutes, and can be 100%
automated.

Stated more simply: as demand for the query services grows, supply will self-
organize to fulfill that demand.

In the case that an indexer returns a false response, they can be heavily
penalized. So long as anyone - either the person who requested the query or a
3rd party fisherman - detects that the indexer produced an invalid results,
she can report the invalid response to the blockchain, and the blockchain
itself will be the final arbiter of truth. Assuming the indexer lied, the
blockchain will slash the indexer’s bond (posted in Graph tokens), and reward
the person who reported the malicious behavior. Additionally, The Graph
protocol leverages some novel zero knowledge proofs to make it even more
difficult for indexers to lie.

You can learn more about The Graph’s crypto-economic game
[here](https://thegraph.com/blog/the-graph-network-in-depth-part-1 "The Graph
Network In Depth Part 1 ").

The beauty of this model is that, taken to the logical extreme, it will
provide a single, uniform, well-documented, globally-accessible,
permissionless, censorship-resistant API that can query all public data sets
on the internet trillions of times per day.

This is impossible in the Web2 paradigm. This is infinite scale.

Next let’s consider [Livepeer](https://livepeer.org/ "LivePeer").

Livepeer is a protocol that facilitates decentralized video transcoding for
live streaming video.

Today, there are only a handful of cloud providers—primarily Amazon,
Microsoft, and Google—that can transcode live streaming video at scale. The
big cloud providers know that smaller players simply do not have enough data
centers around the world with enough processing power to compete for large
scale live streaming, allowing the big providers to overcharge for a commodity
service.

Livepeer allows anyone with a video encoding/decoding application specific
integrated circuited (ASIC) to transcode live-streaming video, and get paid
for doing so. Modern graphics cards contain many different kinds of chips,
including highly-parallel processors, and dedicated video encode/decode ASICs.
Therefore, all computers can offer transcoding services to the Livepeer
network.

There are many large mining operations—each with thousands of graphics
cards—and these facilities are geographically dispersed all over the world.
However, mining farms are only utilizing the general-purpose processors on
these graphics cards; they’re not utilizing the dedicated video encode/decode
ASICs.

The Livepeer protocol allows GPU miners—who are already in the business of
maximizing resource utilization, and who have strong internet connections—to
increase the utilization of their existing resources. Miners can run both POW
hashing and Livepeer transcoding on a single graphics card [without any
performance degradation](https://medium.com/livepeer-blog/livepeer-gpu-miner-
update-663a3e19de56 "Livepeer GPU miner update").

The Livepeer protocol is a smart contract that facilitates this economic
transaction. At a high level, it does a few things: 1) provides a way for
transcoders to signal that they have excess capacity, 2) allows streamers to
discover transcoders, 3) enables streamers to verify that transcoders are
transcoding correctly via sampling (not just sending black pixels), and 4)
supports micropayments.

Again, the beauty of this model is that it scales infinitely. As more
streamers choose to transcode using the Livepeer network, economically-
motivated actors with excess capacity will notice. They will download and
install the Livepeer software, register themselves with the Livepeer smart
contracts, and begin transcoding videos. You can learn more about Livepeer’s
crypto-economic game [here](http://livepeer.org/primer "LivePeer Primer").

This is infinite scale.

Next, let’s consider [Arweave](https://www.arweave.org/ "Arweave").

The Arweave protocol defines a crypto-economic game to incentivize actors to
store data forever. Unlike The Graph and Livepeer—who define the rules of the
crypto-economic game in a smart contract—Arweave’s crypto-economic game is
enforced via consensus rules.

In addition to hash-based POW, Arweave consensus requires miners to
demonstrate Proof of Access (POA) to an already existing, randomly selected
block in Arweave’s blockweave data structure. By adding this additional
constraint to produce new blocks, Arweave miners must allocate some of their
scarce resources away from hashing, and towards permanent file storage. You
can learn more about Arweave’s crypto-economic game
[here](https://www.arweave.org/yellow-paper.pdf "Arweave Yellow Paper").

If outside observers notice that block times are increasing without a
corresponding decline in the price of Arweave tokens, that means that existing
miners are not adequately serving users. Outsiders can download the Arweave
software, download the blockweave, and begin generating revenue.

These self-organizing systems also work in reverse: if demand for a service
decreases over time, eventually some of the service providers will operate at
a loss or stop providing the service. This will in turn increase the
profitability of the remaining service providers. This dynamic is already
evident in Bitcoin mining.

Last, let’s consider [Helium](https://www.helium.com/ "Helium "). Helium is
particularly interesting because of the consumer hardware and local community
component.

Helium represents a radically new business model for deploying and managing
wireless networks. Traditionally, telecom companies like ATT, Verizon,
Vodafone, Orange, China Mobile, China Unicom, SK Telecom, NTT Docomo, and
Softbank centrally plan, manage, and deploy wireless networks. They rent land
for towers, build towers, pay for labor, run back haul, and buy all the
equipment up front before generating any revenue. Building out a wireless
network is extraordinarily capital intensive and slow.

V1 of the Helium network isn’t going after 3G / 4G / 5G that are in phones.
Instead, v1 of the Helium network serves low-power IOT devices that require
long-range wireless and battery life measured in months and years not hours or
days. Examples include environmental sensors, scooters, bicycles, dog collars,
and more.

In the Helium model, consumers buy a [Helium
hotspot](https://www.helium.com/store "Helium Hotspot"), hook it up to their
Wifi or Ethernet at their home or small business, and provide wireless
coverage to nearby IOT devices that leverage the network. Those devices then
pay the hotspot owners per byte of data.

Today, there are more than [3,000
hotspots](https://network.helium.com/coverage "Hotspot Coverage") deployed
around the US, and the 10 largest metro areas in the country are now
thoroughly covered. While there is not yet any meaningful demand flowing over
the network (that feature will be enabled soon), this is remarkable. Thousands
of people all over the country have each invested hundreds of dollars to help
build out the network on a speculative basis, and a robust network has emerged
in only a manner of months.

The Helium network is the fastest wireless network roll out in human history.
This is only possible because of the infinite scale model.

One of the most obvious applications for this technology is location-aware dog
collars. Today, these dog collars are inferior devices because they’re built
on energy-intensive, 3G networks, and battery life is only measured in days.
Who wants to 1) charge their dog’s collar every other day, and 2) pay for a
dedicated data plan from Verizon that utilizes just a few megabytes of data
each month?

As the Helium network matures and becomes ubiquitous , we expect dog
lovers—who want to ensure they have adequate coverage for miles around their
home—to purchase both dog collars and Helium hotspots. Not only will they use
their own hotspots, they’ll also generate income from other nearby dog owners
and users. You can learn more about Helium’s crypto-economic game
[here](https://www.helium.com/technology "Helium Technology").

Like the other networks highlighted above, economically motivated actors will
self-organize to scale the network. For example, scooter companies are likely
to work with juicers (the people who pick up and charge scooters) to maximize
wireless coverage. The beauty of these open systems are that anyone can
observe the supply-demand mismatch, and rectify on a localized basis.

Over the last six months, enthusiastic groups of super-users have purchased
dozens of hotspots at a time, and deployed them all over their local metro
areas. For example, Brad Feld of The Foundry Group is [organizing a public
effort](https://feld.com/archives/2019/12/bringing-the-helium-network-to-
boulder.html "Bringing the Helium Network to Boulder") to deploy the Helium
network in his hometown of Boulder, Colorado. The Helium team never expected
this, and has since formalized a [patron
program](https://www.helium.com/patron "Helium Patron Program ") for those who
want to deploy dozens of hotspots.

The Helium network is particularly interesting because of 1) how many people
are participating on the supply side of the network, 2) the geographic
distribution of those people, 3) the fact that these people are investing in
dedicated hardware (not just renting servers from Amazon), and 4) that they’re
investing in the success of the network before demand is understood.
Ultimately, as the Helium network matures, we expect demand to drive supply.
However, it’s been incredible to see the supply side of this network self-
organize over the last six months.

### Challenges

This new model for organizing economic activity is not without its challenges.
Perhaps the most significant limitation is that this model is not fully
generalizable to support arbitrary computations over persistent data over long
periods of time (e.g. running a web server indefinitely)—at least not yet.

There are two major challenges therein: 1) the data persistence problem: if a
computer is running a computation on some piece of data and then just stops
responding, how does another computer get the data for the last known state to
continue to the computation, and 2) the verification problem: how does the
person who requested the computation know that the computer tasked with
running the computation did so correctly.

I’m optimistic that both of these problems will be solved with advances
cryptography. The data persistence problem is addressable with more efficient
[accumulators](https://medium.com/@aurelcode/cryptographic-accumulators-
da3aa4561d77 "Cryptographic Accumulators"), and the verification problem is
addressable with more efficient [proofs of computational
integrity](https://eprint.iacr.org/2016/646 "Proofs of Computational
Integrity") (which are an integral part of zero knowledge proofs).

In the interim, protocols such as Livepeer, Arweave, and Helium are dealing
with the verification problem via clever forms of sampling in their respective
verification games. In the case of Livepeer, it’s almost trivial for a
verifier to sample video frames (e.g., 1 of every 1,000 frames). In the case
of Arweave, Proof of Access is by definition sampling (I expect over time, as
the blockweave grows larger, that the protocol will increase the sampling
rate). In the case of Helium, Proof-of-Coverage samples hotspots.

While these sampling-based verification games don’t offer cryptographic
guarantees around correctness, they still codify incentives for honest
behavior, and disincentives for dishonest behavior, and so should work at
scale (also, sampling-based verification is common in all kinds of other
systems such as writing to CDs).

### The Road Ahead

We are on the cusp of an explosion in self-organizing systems. In 2020, dozens
of these new systems are going to launch at every layer of the [Web3
Stack](https://multicoin.capital/2019/12/13/the-web3-stack-2019-edition/ "The
Web3 Stack 2019 Edition ").

As Marc Andreessen
[wrote](https://pmarchive.com/three_kinds_of_platforms_you_meet_on_the_internet.html
"Three Kinds of Platforms you Meet on the Internet") in 2007, the biggest
internet platforms will abstract the complexities of scaling complex systems.
Web3 represents a step-function improvement in the development of internet
platforms on two fronts: by making it easier than ever to scale infinitely by
encoding incentives in software, and by enabling permissionless, trust-
minimized, composable, interoperable, censorship-resistant access to these
services for billions of people.

If you’re building any self-organizing systems to coordinate economic
activity, whether as an off-chain service or on-chain protocol, please [reach
out](https://multicoin.capital/contact/ "Contact"). We’d love to learn more
about what you’re building.

 _Thanks to[Yaniv Tal](https://twitter.com/yanivgraph "Yaniv Tal"), [Brandon
Ramirez](https://twitter.com/RezBrandon "Brandon Ramirez"), [Doug
Petkanics](https://twitter.com/petkanics "Doug Petkanics"), [Sam
Williams](https://twitter.com/samecwilliams "Sam Williams "), [Amir
Haleem](https://twitter.com/amirhaleem "Amir Haleem"), [Alex
Pruden](https://twitter.com/apruden08 "Alex Pruden"), and [Ali
Yahya](https://twitter.com/ali01 "Ali Yahya") for their feedback on this
post._

 **Disclosure:** _Multicoin has established, maintains and enforces written
policies and procedures reasonably designed to identify and effectively manage
conflicts of interest related to its investment activities. Multicoin Capital
abides by a “No Trade Policy” for the assets listed in this report for 72
hours (“No Trade Period”) following its public release. No officer, director
or employee shall purchase or sell any of the aforementioned assets during the
No Trade Period. Multicoin Capital is invested in The Graph, Livepeer,
Arweave, and Helium._

+ Show More

[Read NextA Conversation with Tom Shaughnessy on The Evolution Of the Web3
Stack](/2020/01/21/a-conversation-with-tom-shaughnessy-on-the-evolution-of-
the-web3-stack/)

![Kyle
Samani](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/4OF6ywwNnbQLmD5qsIQ9kF/29aa033b59f51bc65fff3729e6948fe4/kyle_samani__2_.jpg)

By [Kyle Samani](/about#225b2112-7be1-5fc9-8755-db7e245ba5a5)

[@kylesamani](https://twitter.com/KyleSamani)

![Brian
Smith](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/byTcJIav8R2kTIQZFaYgW/a0674c3ab7e733028282660088490c8f/brian_smith__1_.jpg)

By [Brian Smith](/about#ebf736aa-ab44-5676-8b7f-a51b95b23d9f)

![John Robert
Reed](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/6jWCv8UL2kFPJizX6Lo2lh/718c8af0338d01af3ad120ffe8378314/john_robert__1_.jpg)

By [John Robert Reed](/about#6fc07476-9152-5e21-9896-56714c96acf7)

[@johnrobertreed](https://twitter.com/johnrobertreed)

![Brian
Smith](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/byTcJIav8R2kTIQZFaYgW/a0674c3ab7e733028282660088490c8f/brian_smith__1_.jpg)

By [Brian Smith](/about#ebf736aa-ab44-5676-8b7f-a51b95b23d9f)

![Tony Sheng
](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/32SVjKPqLtFLP5QQiI1S4J/e793523019bf99a6ffb74ab2d7facce7/IMG_8119.JPG)

By [Tony Sheng ](/about#7ad5f5c0-78c4-54ad-b175-1dc1e672e3bb)

[@tonysheng](https://twitter.com/tonysheng)

![Ryan Gentry
](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/35rSKIYaDhTUyYClttsHoS/78f1ea4be0b01ba453ddd1d100b6b549/Ryan-
Gentry.jpg)

By [Ryan Gentry ](/about#c0a2a383-67bc-501b-9626-e1d4b977dd8a)

[@ryanthegentry](https://twitter.com/ryanthegentry)

More Tags

[Writing](/blog/category/blog/)[Featured](/blog/category/featured/)[Podcasts](/podcasts/)[Videos](/videos/)

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER FOR THE BEST INSIGHTS IN CRYPTO

[![phoenix](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/72L5sEuJXOA7PvWBZM540E/27909d6ff5cda80158665ca43514b11c/phoenix_logo_white.svg)Subscribe](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)

* * *

  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)

  * [Podcasts](/podcasts/)
  * [Videos](/videos/)
  * [Subscribe](https://multicoin.capital/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

### GET IN TOUCH

We’re always looking for compelling ideas, business, and partnership
opportunities. We also enjoy reading your feedback. If you’re submitting a
business proposal, please include a clear description and any resources that
could help us evaluate your opportunity.

[hello@multicoin.capital](mailto:hello@multicoin.capital)

* * *

![Multicoin
Capital](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

## Multicoin Capital

©2017-2021 Multicoin Capital. All Rights Reserved.

