[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/a9d958f75e64&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![BlocksetHQ](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*AeDR47iyu3-7YKooygJrzg.png)](https://medium.com/blocksethq?source=post_page
-----a9d958f75e64--------------------------------)

Published in

[BlocksetHQ

](https://medium.com/blocksethq?source=post_page-----
a9d958f75e64--------------------------------)

[![Blockset](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/2*EGqsd_JFSdppEEEXi9arRg.png)](/@BlocksetHQ?source=post_page
-----a9d958f75e64--------------------------------)

[Blockset](/@BlocksetHQ?source=post_page-----
a9d958f75e64--------------------------------)

Follow

Jul 10, 2020

·

5 min read

#  **Infrastructure Providers Defined: An Introduction**

 _This piece provides a brief overview of what blockchain infrastructure
providers do. In future posts, we’ll dive more in depth on the technical
nuances involved with running a blockchain infrastructure._

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*5MsUrirHzcW5je_d)

If you read the [previous post](/blocksethq/the-blockchain-industry-defined-
digital-asset-data-report-d60d4078b57d) about the importance of “[The State of
the Digital Asset Data and Infrastructure
Landscape](https://www.tbstat.com/wp/uploads/2020/05/The-State-of-the-Digital-
Asset-Data-and-Infrastructure-Landscape.pdf)” research report, then now it’s
time to begin diving into the report to understand it’s full value as both a
sales tool and education tool.

At a high level, the report maps out the landscape of the blockchain industry,
by dividing it up into a few main sections:

  1. Infrastructure providers
  2. On-Chain data providers
  3. Market data providers
  4. Other

 **In this piece, we’ll be providing a brief overview of infrastructure
providers, one of the main categories in The Block’s research report**.

# Defining Blockchain Infrastructure Providers

The Block **research group defines infrastructure providers as, “blockchain-
as-a-service products enabling developers and businesses to build blockchain-
enabled applications.”** In other words, these companies:

  * Host and maintain nodes
  * Guarantee high levels of uptime
  * Ensure highly secure and reliable infrastructure
  * Offer data feeds in the form of REST APIs, WebSockets, and/or Webhooks
  * Provide developer tools
  * May offer other professional services, which includes helping to build products, assigning dedicated account managers, premium support, and other value-adds commonly provided by other SaaS providers

 **This together enables other companies to easily read or write blockchain
data to build with digital assets, without the need to become blockchain
experts themselves.**

# Is Running Our Own Infrastructure Really that Difficult?

It’s not just about running a node — although there are headaches associated
with that. For example, **setting up a full Ethereum node can take months just
to sync the entire chain**. Additionally, protocols have updates. To create a
system where you update a node properly, with backup, while also keeping other
nodes live to ensure no downtime is not a trivial matter.

But for enterprises, it goes even beyond this. It’s about building and
maintaining a highly secure, robust, high throughput system that allows
enables your company’s software to read and write data extremely quickly for
millions, if not, billions of users. Additionally, multiple Points-of-Presence
(POPs) is crucial for data integrity, validation, and high amounts of uptime.
In a future post, we’ll dive into more of the nuances involved with
technically running your own blockchain infrastructure.

# Who are their Customers?

Prospective clients for infrastructure providers can be virtually any company.
**Infrastructure providers are the foundational backbone for all apps built to
integrate with digital assets. Essentially, they help all apps run smoother
and more reliably.**

Common customer segments seen today are:

  * Banks
  * FinTech companies
  * Exchanges and OTC desks
  * Decentralized applications (dApps)
  * On-chain analytics providers
  * Government agencies

Common use cases are to build and maintain infrastructure to support custody
solutions, receive read and write data for building all types of dApps,
receiving data for KYC/AML operations, and much more. Ultimately, they are the
foundation layer for any company that needs to interact and build with digital
assets.

# What’s the Benefit to the Customer?

 **Cost, time, and expertise.** The attractiveness of partnering with an
infrastructure provider is primarily to get to market more quickly, save on
cost, and take advantage of the expertise that the provider has. The most
valuable resource to any company is its team, and to form a team of blockchain
engineering and business experts is no small feat.

Blockset for example is proud to be able to get projects to market in half the
time, at a fraction of the cost. When dealing with expenses human resources
and technical infrastructure, these savings are substantial. Check out our
[Chain Cost Calculator](https://blockset.com/costcalc) to see an estimate of
what it would cost you to run your operation without Blockset.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*lGy5xovHFBycvG6Z)

# Here are the Leaders to Keep Up With

The Block has created a Magic Quadrant chart, and to most people breaking this
down, the ‘leaders’ section is the place that companies want to be.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*L4CvmTmjcbE0pU0L)

The highest performing leaders today are Alchemy and Infura as they are early
to market. But, Infura supports only Ethereum. Alchemy, on the other hand,
does support more chains and has on-boarded 170 companies to date, aiming for
the enterprise client, just like Blockset. We are proud to see Blockset there
with these leaders. **While Blockset may be the newest one in the leaderboard,
the infrastructure and offering of Blockset is essentially a productized
version of the infrastructure built over the past 6 years to create BRD, one
of the largest non-custodial wallets supporting nearly 5 million customers at
the time of writing. So, while BRD is just entering the B2B space, the
technology, expertise in blockchain, and past experience of team members give
Blockset a huge head start. Blockset is currently working with**[ **major
banks and financial institutions
today**](https://markets.businessinsider.com/news/stocks/brd-expands-into-
enterprise-launches-blockset-to-accelerate-blockchain-development-1028899418#)
**.**

Below is one more graphics showcasing the different players and offerings:

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*uXcFErcCRkvdxdnl)

Notice how virtually every company has a SaaS offering, which is a clear
indicator of targeting institutional clients. With a dedicated account
manager, custom functionality, and the other offerings that come with SaaS,
the infrastructure landscape is generally targeting enterprises, although it
is not uncommon to find API offerings that can still be used by developers and
startups.

By now you should understand what infrastructure providers are and why they’re
a vital need in the industry. To learn more about the different players in the
infrastructure business of the blockchain services industry, [**check out The
Block’s report here**](https://www.tbstat.com/wp/uploads/2020/05/The-State-of-
the-Digital-Asset-Data-and-Infrastructure-Landscape.pdf). **This research
report is an unbiased analysis of the landscape that can be used to give
concrete answers to objections, questions, or comments** from those entering
the space or looking to integrate with digital assets.

\--

\--

\--

## [More from BlocksetHQ](/blocksethq?source=post_page-----
a9d958f75e64--------------------------------)

Enterprise blockchain data

[Read more from BlocksetHQ](/blocksethq?source=post_page-----
a9d958f75e64--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Justin Goro](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*JJTb4g_FaTJtwxdXWj-
OOA.jpeg)](/@justingoro?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[Justin Goro

](/@justingoro?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## A blockchain solution for international Amazon deliveries

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*-RrQzEEqDaqT9Kjp.jpg)](/@justingoro/a-blockchain-
solution-for-international-amazon-
deliveries-3616690717ac?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![POFID-DAO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*JBoN_-rwlaNT8RnT-
vHiMQ.png)](/@pofiddao?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[POFID-DAO

](/@pofiddao?source=post_internal_links---------1----------------------------)

## POFID and Privacy Protection, a Necessity in the DeFi Industry

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*hiqMp3DBpxTDZxjf0K_yMg.png)](/@pofiddao/pofid-
and-privacy-protection-a-necessity-in-the-defi-industry-
aa520144d0fb?source=post_internal_links---------1----------------------------)

[[![Superorder.io](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*uz2yCs51nT0rkCmU4YoTJA.png)](/@superorder?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Superorder.io

](/@superorder?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[Superorder

](https://medium.com/superorder?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Blockchain Alternatives: How Other DLT Types Work?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*xMWnTc0E6vq2TcZ0)](/superorder/blockchain-
alternatives-how-other-dlt-types-work-e44d19377dd0?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[[![Atomars
Exchange](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*bsUVmwyK0gU4d8suqm1dEQ.jpeg)](/@atomarsexchange?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Atomars Exchange

](/@atomarsexchange?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## General Overview Of Nebulas (NAS)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*GWHpMXc3AUggKKe6LhGjuA.jpeg)](/@atomarsexchange/general-
overview-of-nebulas-nas-86cc529f1244?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![The Blocknet
Protocol](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*oSWCwHv9NQjUYXSHR76cYg.png)](/@theblocknetchannel?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[The Blocknet Protocol

](/@theblocknetchannel?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

in

[Blocknet

](https://medium.com/blocknet?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Word on the BLOCK: 15th August 2020

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*KyzKnpB0JMmb9U2rNJm75A.png)](/blocknet/word-
on-the-block-15th-august-2020-7f22830f784e?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Maxine](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*R1HRV5uhH3wCzpNN2yKp7w.jpeg)](/@Maxine8964?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Maxine

](/@Maxine8964?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Will Cardano explode in 2022?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*g51oXbcn_7V3yWGqpQQGVQ.jpeg)](/coinmonks/will-
cardano-explode-in-2022-b1a3bb6343ec?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Норайр
Хачатрян](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*jgJ8s58trLYJWdRj)](/@norajrhacatran8?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Норайр Хачатрян

](/@norajrhacatran8?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Axelar Network — what is it and what are the benefits?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*gziUnNiv7vSUyQsw.jpg)](/@norajrhacatran8/axelar-
network-what-is-it-and-what-are-the-
benefits-f2297b08ccf0?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Waves
Africa](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*xE_35CHXsgaHH8R5)](/@wavesafrica?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Waves Africa

](/@wavesafrica?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

in

[wavesafrica

](https://medium.com/wavesafrica?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## All about USDC on Swop.fi

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*R96bh5DoLnT_Qx_X.png)](/wavesafrica/all-
about-usdc-on-swop-fi-11fb3a9dfa5?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----a9d958f75e64--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
a9d958f75e64--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
a9d958f75e64--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
a9d958f75e64--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
a9d958f75e64--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----a9d958f75e64--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----a9d958f75e64--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fblocksethq%2Finfrastructure-
providers-defined-an-introduction-a9d958f75e64&source=post_page
--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Blockset](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/2*EGqsd_JFSdppEEEXi9arRg.png)](/@BlocksetHQ)

[

## Blockset

](/@BlocksetHQ)

12 Followers

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fusers%2F4bd1e7b24281%2Flazily-enable-
writer-
subscription&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fblocksethq%2Finfrastructure-
providers-defined-an-
introduction-a9d958f75e64&user=Blockset&userId=4bd1e7b24281&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Rajatbansal](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*4Fo2SEFvJ6UqjaXd)](/@rajatbansal427?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------0a0aa93a_ca14_4980_b0b0_33ea4f579550-------)

[Rajatbansal

](/@rajatbansal427?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
0a0aa93a_ca14_4980_b0b0_33ea4f579550-------)

## Kunal Shah’s ‘Entropic complexity’ tweets explained

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*SgZOjev_g0Me4WlaKAI1-A.png)](/@rajatbansal427/kunal-
shahs-entropic-complexity-tweets-
explained-d6ebd943dbf8?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
0a0aa93a_ca14_4980_b0b0_33ea4f579550-------)

[[![Angela](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*cXYgffNW0VHzuhwCK1o6hw.png)](/@angela_25542?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------0a0aa93a_ca14_4980_b0b0_33ea4f579550-------)

[Angela

](/@angela_25542?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
0a0aa93a_ca14_4980_b0b0_33ea4f579550-------)

in

[Luniverse

](https://medium.com/luniverse?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------0a0aa93a_ca14_4980_b0b0_33ea4f579550-------)

## 2022 Luniverse Enterprise Blockchain Trend

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*YhaC_AeXqTNPRJbc.png)](/luniverse/2022-luniverse-
enterprise-blockchain-trend-2b61b58202a9?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------0a0aa93a_ca14_4980_b0b0_33ea4f579550-------)

[[![Borut
Grgic](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dat_BsdrOzUjC5R9FDgQgQ.jpeg)](/@borutgrgic?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------0a0aa93a_ca14_4980_b0b0_33ea4f579550-------)

[Borut Grgic

](/@borutgrgic?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
0a0aa93a_ca14_4980_b0b0_33ea4f579550-------)

in

[Binit.tech

](https://medium.com/binit-tech?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------0a0aa93a_ca14_4980_b0b0_33ea4f579550-------)

## Prototyping and the learning curve

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*JeCOb1sc7z5QwHyGQyNk_A.jpeg)](/binit-
tech/prototyping-and-the-learning-curve-edf12eba039d?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------0a0aa93a_ca14_4980_b0b0_33ea4f579550-------)

[[![Moses On-Chain
♾️](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*MTvH2CzHG9WdIvLd9QDvYg.png)](/@moses-
on-chain?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
0a0aa93a_ca14_4980_b0b0_33ea4f579550-------)

[Moses On-Chain ♾️

](/@moses-on-chain?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
0a0aa93a_ca14_4980_b0b0_33ea4f579550-------)

## Introduction To Cloud Computing’s Role In The Tech Stack: Why The Internet
Computer Is Different &…

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*w37Nc5KzcbqOwUkvOcA29g.jpeg)](/@moses-
on-chain/introduction-to-cloud-computings-role-in-the-tech-stack-why-the-
internet-computer-is-different-911a21049a2f?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------0a0aa93a_ca14_4980_b0b0_33ea4f579550-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

