[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/1189f688ccc1&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Instadapp](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*Jdx_PVb-M-
wDOIBWGFLXhg.png)](https://medium.com/instadapp?source=post_page-----
1189f688ccc1--------------------------------)

Published in

[Instadapp

](https://medium.com/instadapp?source=post_page-----
1189f688ccc1--------------------------------)

[![Sebastian
Gutierrez](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/2*ezYGyhmtWUpPL2bqZiafUA.jpeg)](/@SebGutierrez?source=post_page
-----1189f688ccc1--------------------------------)

[Sebastian Gutierrez](/@SebGutierrez?source=post_page-----
1189f688ccc1--------------------------------)

Follow

Jun 19, 2019

·

5 min read

# Integrations & Utilities.

## Its been a while and we sure have some catching up to do!

[InstaDApp](https://instadapp.io) is “Your Bridge to Decentralized Finance”.
You can interact with a variety of decentralized protocols in one place, you
can create DAI by locking Ether, you can trade with on-chain liquidity and the
ability to make interest on your crypto assets.

Along for a stalled update! First, we want to thank everyone who is utilizing
InstaDApp and our small, yet active community, we appreciate your feedback and
take your suggestions seriously.

For those of you that have missed us for some time, our new dashboard brings
you access to multiple decentralized protocols with perfect visualization of
your net worth on blockchain.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*sAw1mI4tH4yQKpcdi0N7rA.png)

 _For those of you who still have your CDP in previous iterations of
InstaDApp, they can directly import it on the new dashboard after creating a
contract wallet._

# Integrations & More Utility.

InstaDapp v1 integrated with MakerDAO CDP & Kyber Network liquidity with its
smooth order matching to provide quick convenient on chain swaps. Our v2
includes some additional functions, we have added the ability to participate
in decentralized liquidity pools by integrating Uniswap, borrow cryptos on
Compound Finance and utilize Kybers liquidity for leveraging your MakerDAO’s
CDP _._

## Borrow & Lend on Compound.

Compound Finance is an open-source protocol for algorithmic, efficient Money
Markets on the Ethereum blockchain. On Compound you can lend/borrow your
cryptos and earn/pay interest. Last week we launched our revamped
[Dashboard](https://instadapp.io/compound/) which includes integration with
Compound. It allows you to manage your Compound’s lending and borrowing. In
the simplest way possible. Bop it, Twist it, and tell us how you like it.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*7alRxpvIhhmJm4aPvXJwdQ.png)

## Manage Uniswap Pools.

Uniswap is decentralized on chain protocol for token transfers that also
allows anyone to provide liquidity. Here is a brief description of Uniswap:
Uniswap utilizes liquidity reserves in a pooled structure; to provide
liquidity to Uniswap, you deposit your ERC20 token as well as an equivalent
value in ETH. You then receive a portion of the liquidity pool which grows
through small fees (0.3%) that are incurred when traders trade from your
liquidity pool. We seriously encourage you to [read more about
Uniswap](https://uniswap.io). Users can now easily manage their liquidity
pools on InstaDApp.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*cdkSqGoDoAFWOMkbz79oUQ.png)

InstaDApp Uniswap Portal

## Manage CDP.

Let's explain this from a bottom-up approach, and for simplicity let’s just
ignore the upcoming [**Multi-Collateral
DAI**](https://blog.makerdao.com/update-the-road-to-multi-collateral-dai-
kovan-release-v0-2-6/) **.** _The principals are the same in Multi-Collateral
DAI except that there would be other assets backing DAI besides Ethereum._

The bedrock of MakerDAO, a CDP is also known as a **Collateralized Debt
Position.** It’s simply a debt against the value of your Ether, this debt
allows you to create DAI. At the time of writing, you can withdraw up to 2/3
of Ether’s current market value in DAI, but 0.01% higher and your CDP is
liquidated. Liquidation of your CDP also comes at a 13% penalty.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*JmISo7Nu85eOyD0_VqfNSQ.png)

InstaDApp MakerDAO Portal

You can always borrow less DAI to create a small buffer for market changes to
the price of Ether. MakerDAO runs on Ethereum so the system is up 24/7, and
runs on math, if your CDPs ratio becomes too risky, you can adjust your ratio
at any time by adding more Ether or by wiping some of the DAI you withdrew.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/960/1*pRjfe1zOTaAm7S1eXHd3HA.gif)

Re-balance your CDP at any time
([credit](https://giphy.com/gifs/blacklivesmatter-reform-altonsterling-
philandocastile-legaldefensefund-naacp-xT8qBit7YomT80d0M8))

You can take a more proactive approach by monitoring your CDP. You can use
[Makerscan](https://makerscan.io/) to monitor your CDP in real time. Makerscan
also has some tools to help you, you can get email updates on any CDP or even
better, use the companion [Telegram Bot](https://t.me/MakerScanBot).

> As you owe DAI against your Ether, your CDP incurs an interest-type fee that
> MakerDAO calls a ‘stability fee.’ The stability fee is voted on by the
> holders of MKR.

With your freshly minted DAI, you can use it for whatever you like, without
having to sell your Ethereum, refinance a personal loan against your Ether, or
you could take that DAI — swap it for some more Ether. That’s where Loop /
Save comes into action.

## Loop and Save CDP.

You could swap your DAI for Ether, and then add it to your existing CDP
increasing its collateral, which would allow you to draw more DAI thus create
leverage. This is also called ‘longing’ because you are betting on the long
term growth of the underlying asset, ETH.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*IiLnn99VIWSM88N3DeTpXQ.png)

Leverage / Save your CDP

This process is pretty simple to do with the decentralized protocols that are
currently available, you would just need to complete a series of transactions
to create DAI, swap for Ether and add additional collateral.

This process can be called a ‘ ** _Loop_** ’ — The most difficult and cost
ineffective part of this process is the multiple transactions you would need
to complete in order to this.

InstaDApp makes this process easy by utilizing multiple decentralized
contracts as well as on chain liquidity to accomplish leverage in one simple
transaction.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/800/1*_qW3Kx5fbVe_IjtAKdyFGQ.gif)

You lock ETH here, you pull out DAI, and then you shake it all around
([credit](https://giphy.com/gifs/satisfying-blocks-5W06LUtY2ZxiE))

InstaDApp also includes this utility in a reverse manner to save your CDP. You
can use the ‘ ** _Save_** ’ to convert part of your remaining free Ether into
DAI and wipe debt from your CDP, protecting your ratio for becoming too risky.

# What’s Next?

With the rise in Maker’s stability fees, we’ve seen CDP users shifting to
different lending protocols like Compound, Nuo, dydx, Dharma, etc. This showed
us how the change in one good DeFi protocol can affect every other protocol.

Interoperability between bring efficiency between protocols. We are soon
launching the very first bridge decentralized between MakerDAO & Compound
Finance. You can learn more below:

[

## The Bridge between MakerDAO and Compound.

### With the rise in Maker’s stability fees, we’ve seen CDP users shifting to
different lending protocols like Compound…

medium.com

](/instadapp/bridge-protocols-eb14b2dd0fe7)

[InstaDApp](https://instadapp.io) is Autonomous Banking Portal on Emerging
Blockchain based Financial Protocols with a seamless experience. We are
committed to growing Decentralised Finance ecosystem and building innovative
products around protocols to bring the mainstream adoption of the overall DEFI
**** industry.

Up, up and away into the # **Defi** space. Have any doubts? Come, join the
discussion: [Twitter](https://twitter.com/instadapp) /
[Telegram](https://t.me/instadapp) / [Discord](https://discord.gg/83vvrnY) or
step inside our [Email Newsletter](https://instadapp.io/newsletter).

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Instadapp](/instadapp?source=post_page-----
1189f688ccc1--------------------------------)

Powerful DeFi Management Platform

[Read more from Instadapp](/instadapp?source=post_page-----
1189f688ccc1--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Alejandro
Brega](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*7nZtGYT8B-cdAKyK.jpg)](/@aleb?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Alejandro Brega

](/@aleb?source=post_internal_links---------0----------------------------)

## Get Gold Prices From Dubai Gold &amp; Commodities Exchange With An API

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*GTGh1u94naC0yjO3.jpg)](/@aleb/get-
gold-prices-from-dubai-gold-amp-commodities-exchange-with-an-
api-a84b65f3f9d?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![PunksMatic](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*YB321xhZsq8dQJyS0Ozu7Q.jpeg)](/@punksmatic?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[PunksMatic

](/@punksmatic?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Why Punks on Polygon?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*2e4dc0RHYgJFFTgDAIXi3w.png)](/@punksmatic/why-
punks-on-polygon-88388b1da9ae?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![CryptoArt.Ai](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*RJ_LEZQIhAcir1_AT8Go9A@2x.jpeg)](/@cryptoart-
ai?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

[CryptoArt.Ai

](/@cryptoart-ai?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## CART. Finance V2 is LIVE! Participate and Enter the CART.Finance Farm, Pool
and NFT Staking!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*w1k7xJKPwL5vPiewwOeatA.jpeg)](/@cryptoart-
ai/cart-finance-v2-is-live-participate-and-enter-the-cart-finance-farm-pool-
and-nft-staking-6e34d2ee2d04?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![the1millionproject](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*Dvx0dPLM4wrwbleQOiKvZw.jpeg)](/@t1mproject?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[the1millionproject

](/@t1mproject?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Global Storm ahead

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*cJi2v-IsZGNHGx_i.jpg)](/@t1mproject/global-
storm-ahead-91a015425b6?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Sajjad
Hussain](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*mfXv3MlYSueCU36YCqauoA.jpeg)](/@sajjadhussain-11869?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Sajjad Hussain

](/@sajjadhussain-11869?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

in

[Crypto Pundit

](https://medium.com/cryptocurrencies-ups-and-down?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

## Bitcoin Investment Guide for Novices

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*MPcafRISfwdiFy41)](/cryptocurrencies-
ups-and-down/bitcoin-investment-guide-for-novices-
af734b63fc4a?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

[[![Plethori](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*MQeCox5pJ-U-
Vd66dP88ZA.png)](/@Plethori?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[Plethori

](/@Plethori?source=post_internal_links---------5----------------------------)

in

[Plethori

](https://medium.com/plethori?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Plethori Announces Plans for a Metaverse ETF

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*UKs7ZIPPY86INhl2)](/plethori/plethori-
announces-plans-for-a-metaverse-etf-33f51e141052?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[[![Women Hackers
Club](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*uAB7bEYJGwBO9yWC-
SrMxw.png)](/@womenhackersclub?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[Women Hackers Club

](/@womenhackersclub?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Allowlist, Collaborations, and our Fractionalized Artwork

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*GHuBs4XuAP-
ETe3_sTolag.jpeg)](/@womenhackersclub/allowlist-collaborations-and-our-
fractionalized-artwork-a43ca4da1f44?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Meepweeb](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*h8EBZ7DQIkmASYEn-
uSQ4w@2x.jpeg)](/@meepweeb?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[Meepweeb

](/@meepweeb?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

## MobiFi x Blockfolio

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*VJZCRW7Gdf3im9_CVjGnqA.jpeg)](/@meepweeb/mobifi-
x-blockfolio-93ad82a70167?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----1189f688ccc1--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
1189f688ccc1--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
1189f688ccc1--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
1189f688ccc1--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
1189f688ccc1--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----1189f688ccc1--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----1189f688ccc1--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Finstadapp%2Fintegration-
utilities-1189f688ccc1&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Sebastian
Gutierrez](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/2*ezYGyhmtWUpPL2bqZiafUA.jpeg)](/@SebGutierrez)

[

## Sebastian Gutierrez

](/@SebGutierrez)

16 Followers

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fusers%2Fdd674b6e89bc%2Flazily-enable-
writer-
subscription&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Finstadapp%2Fintegration-
utilities-1189f688ccc1&user=Sebastian+Gutierrez&userId=dd674b6e89bc&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Doran](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*nWncpD0luGBG-9-merkJOA.png)](/@cryptodoran?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------e793440b_77ae_4d61_a4f6_294c089f31e9-------)

[Doran

](/@cryptodoran?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
e793440b_77ae_4d61_a4f6_294c089f31e9-------)

in

[Slap Finance

](https://medium.com/slap-finance?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------e793440b_77ae_4d61_a4f6_294c089f31e9-------)

## The Journey: SLAP’s Roadmap to the Future

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*ywF0uofG3HXsp9qWSu9YUw.png)](/slap-
finance/the-journey-slaps-roadmap-to-the-
future-4db1a12995c0?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
e793440b_77ae_4d61_a4f6_294c089f31e9-------)

[[![Crypto Uni
Dao](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*yFIg3d7Vy4Ic5tXQFQGqng.png)](/@cryptounidao?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------e793440b_77ae_4d61_a4f6_294c089f31e9-------)

[Crypto Uni Dao

](/@cryptounidao?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
e793440b_77ae_4d61_a4f6_294c089f31e9-------)

## What the Cloud?

![Ref: https://whitepaper.cryptounicorns.fun/crypto-unicorns-
whitepaper-v2/assets/unicorn-
nfts/class](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*7kwSLqKf_sj2czioKqrMvw.png)](/@cryptounidao/what-
the-cloud-bcd49da96013?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
e793440b_77ae_4d61_a4f6_294c089f31e9-------)

[[![Float](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*J7CTogn8-RTn8wMQJVX3ew.png)](/@_FLOAT_?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------e793440b_77ae_4d61_a4f6_294c089f31e9-------)

[Float

](/@_FLOAT_?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
e793440b_77ae_4d61_a4f6_294c089f31e9-------)

## Float Capital raises $5 mil. Time to ship.

![](https://miro.medium.com/freeze/focal/112/112/50/50/1*_bvnQHq28KMyhpEpFSoS9A.gif)](/@_FLOAT_/float-
capital-raises-5-mil-time-to-ship-460e141ead8c?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------e793440b_77ae_4d61_a4f6_294c089f31e9-------)

[[![Morgan Wadiri
MG](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*e4o95klxxnYLmqpL)](/@morganwadirimg?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------e793440b_77ae_4d61_a4f6_294c089f31e9-------)

[Morgan Wadiri MG

](/@morganwadirimg?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
e793440b_77ae_4d61_a4f6_294c089f31e9-------)

## cadena etérea

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*wbQKItQUAAeh1bSs.png)](/@morganwadirimg/cadena-
etérea-5105c5ebd5f9?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
e793440b_77ae_4d61_a4f6_294c089f31e9-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

