[Konrad S. Graf](/)

  * [About](/)
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)
  * Evolutionary Health [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health) [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)
  * [Translation](/translation)
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)
  * [Blog](/blog1)
  * [Contact](/contact)

# [Konrad S. Graf](/)

  * [About](/)/
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)/
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)/
  * Evolutionary Health/

    * [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health)
    * [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)

  * [Translation](/translation)/
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)/
  * [Blog](/blog1)/
  * [Contact](/contact)/

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf) [
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A) [
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

# [Konrad S. Graf](/)

# Blog

# [Konrad S. Graf](/)

  * [About](/)/
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)/
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)/
  * Evolutionary Health/

    * [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health)
    * [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)

  * [Translation](/translation)/
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)/
  * [Blog](/blog1)/
  * [Contact](/contact)/

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf) [
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A) [
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

[October 11, 2017](/blog1/2017/10/10/bitcoin-blockchains-and-economic-theory-
an-interview-with-konrad-s-graf)

# [Interview: Bitcoin, blockchains, and economic
theory](/blog1/2017/10/10/bitcoin-blockchains-and-economic-theory-an-
interview-with-konrad-s-graf)

[October 11, 2017](/blog1/2017/10/10/bitcoin-blockchains-and-economic-theory-
an-interview-with-konrad-s-graf)/ [Konrad
Graf](/blog1?author=5720adbcb6aa6055fa279727)

> Dr. Andreas Tiedke, a businessperson, attorney, and author, asked me some
> questions about Bitcoin for the Mises Institute of Germany
> ([misesde.org)](http://www.misesde.org/) community. The interview covers
> some fundamental issues in understanding how bitcoin works as well as
> observations on current issues. This was conducted first in English, which
> is below. My German did prove sufficient to read Dr. Tiedke's resulting
> translation, [published here](http://www.misesde.org/?p=16867). Well done!

![Image: Tony Lozano.](https://images.squarespace-
cdn.com/content/v1/5720adbdc6fc0891cbcce17c/1507637335016-03VSD5UCQQ0C3RL7AF2Y/Broad_chain_closeup.jpg)

Image: Tony Lozano.

**AT:** Do you know who Satoshi Nakamoto, the alleged inventor of Bitcoin, is?
Do you think it is really Craig Steven Wright?

 **KG:** Satoshi remained anonymous with great care, most likely for good
reasons. His invention could be quite disruptive. He may also control a
million or more bitcoins (and now a million BCH as well) from the early days
of mining to get the network on its feet. This currently has a potential
market value of several billion euros. These coins have never been moved. I
have seen no evidence that leads me to believe he has changed his mind on
anonymity.

 **AT:** There is a legend about an early offer to deliver pizza for 10,000
bitcoins. Do you know whether it is true? The pizza baker must now be a
millionaire (about 40 million euros)!

 **KG:** Someone offered 10,000 BTC on a mailing list to anyone who would
deliver pizza to him. Someone took him up and ordered pizza from a delivery
place near the asker using a credit card, doing so from another country. The
pizza buyer received the bitcoins, the asker received the pizza, and the pizza
delivery place received only an ordinary credit card payment. Technically
then, the pizza served as an intermediary for exchanging bitcoin for the
credit card payment, as bitcoin could not be used at that time to buy the
pizza directly. Nevertheless, this became a milestone in people’s minds in
which Bitcoin interfaced with “the real economy.”

For monetary theory, it is important to understand that for Bitcoin’s first
several months of existence—nearly a year—the tradable “bitcoin” units had no
market value. It was just a technical experiment. Only later did the tradable
units begin to gradually gain a market value.

 **AT:** Some believe that the blockchain has two main disadvantages: First,
transactions cannot be anonymous because every transaction is stored. Second,
it will become too big in the future, also because every transaction is
stored. Do they have a point?

 **KG:** All transactions are anonymous in principle in that they lack any
identifying information on persons or organizations. This contrasts with
banking systems in which accounts must be associated with identities—except
for the old Swiss numbered accounts. There _are no accounts_ in Bitcoin
itself, only addresses and transactions. New valid addresses can be generated
from scratch anywhere, even using dice.

That said, Bitcoin’s blockchain is public and it is possible to “connect the
dots” to uncover identities behind transactions. Each wallet has different
privacy characteristics and there are privacy best practices, such as always
using a new address for receiving.

An “evolutionary arms race” prevails between privacy features and blockchain
analytics. The blockchain provides a permanent record of all that has occurred
on it, so analysts can just keep going over all this data at their leisure to
find associations. On the other hand, several development projects aim at
improving privacy. Payment codes, for example, add a layer that enables
payments to be made without revealing the underlying address. For more on the
privacy characteristics of current wallets, see the [Open Bitcoin Privacy
Project](http://www.openbitcoinprivacyproject.org/).

As to whether a given blockchain would become “too big,” that is a subjective
assessment. Too big to whom and for what? Generally, the costs of data
storage, processing power, and bandwidth all plummet year after year, and
developers are also working hard to revise software such that it makes more
efficient use of given resources. These are all important contexts for
considering this.

 **AT:** What is bitcoin in your opinion? Is it money or an asset, a capital
good?

 **KG:** This is still a challenging issue. The best starting point is to say
that bitcoin is something entirely new, never seen before. As we try to
understand it using the terminology of economics or law, for example, those
concepts themselves have to be questioned in an interactive process. Beyond
economics, I also used this approach in a short
[book](https://www.amazon.com/Are-Bitcoins-Ownable-Legal-Theory-Implications-
ebook/dp/B017MXTQIY) addressing the relationship between bitcoin and property
rights theory. So my approach is not only “What is bitcoin?” But also: “Do our
theoretical concepts need some refining in light of bitcoin?” The alternative
is a tendency to pretend to force bitcoin into some existing box into which it
does not actually fit.

Another useful principle to apply was one emphasized in the work of Ludwig von
Mises—economic concepts have to do with the analysis of human action. So in
looking at Bitcoin, I have emphasized that it is critical to distinguish the
technical “layer” from the economic one. For example, Bitcoin existed as a
technical system for nearly a year _before_ its tradable units gained any
market value. And it was nearly two years before it gained any appreciable use
in the buying and selling of goods. So clearly these economic valuations
emerged _on top of_ what was already there, which was this technical layer.
That means people began to figure out that they could begin to make certain
economic uses out of this technical thing that was already running. Exchange
values and trading venues gradually co-emerged.

I argued [here](http://www.konradsgraf.com/s/On-the-Origins-of-Bitcoin-
Graf-031113.pdf) that bitcoin gained market value for use as a medium of
exchange, which means an economic good demanded not for its own sake, but to
be held and exchanged for other goods or services at some indeterminate later
time. Initial uses of the units before it gained any exchange value were
extremely thin and require some analysis to even identify: for example, being
valued as a [collectible item](http://nakamotoinstitute.org/shelling-out/), or
as a by-product or symbol of participation in an interesting software project,
a researcher plaything, in the earliest days.

Some have come to view bitcoin today as more of an asset. Rather than cash to
use for day-to-day transactions, it is more a larger-value vehicle held in
reserve. Of course, different people have used it in both ways and the same
people also use it in both ways at different times. Both uses are possible so
long as it maintains a positive exchange value and some reasonable liquidity.
The value of the supply being unchangeable can overcome some degree of other
inconveniences.

However, these categories are not exclusive, but on a continuum. A medium of
exchange use always takes place across time and involves addressing the
inherent risk and uncertainty of the future. The variables under discussion
are therefore the relative amounts held, the duration of holding, and the
increments of future spending of the medium of exchange. In contrast, the idea
of an alleged “store of value” use often used in this debate as if it were a
contrast to a medium of exchange use is imprecise and impressionistic. Just as
money does not “measure” value, as Mises emphasized, but is rather exchanged
for goods at some indefinite future time, “value” cannot be “stored,” as if it
were a certain amount of food. This “store of value” idea is more a weak
intuitive analogy than a rigorous economic concept. Underneath this illusion,
there are only intertemporal exchanges that take place over different time
scales and in different amounts.

 **AT:** Why the division of Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash?

 **KG:** The BTC/BCH chain split was one outcome of a disagreement over a
protocol limitation on the maximum size of each block added to the chain. I
have written about political-economic considerations on the block size limit
[here](https://news.bitcoin.com/konrad-graf-bitcoin-block-size-economy/), as
well as a follow-up series addressing common criticisms starting
[here](http://www.konradsgraf.com/blog1/2016/7/8/block-size-political-economy-
follow-up-1-software-choice-market-differentiation-and-term-
selection?rq=follow).

The “cash” side emphasizes that it is important for people to be able to
transact in bitcoin without too much difficulty, and that this usability is an
important component of its value. The “digital gold” side emphasizes the idea
that such convenience is not especially important compared to a secure vehicle
for long-term savings—adding that anyway, promised “layer 2” transacting
options should supply these additional practical needs in the future, still
denominated in on-chain bitcoin. A widespread belief underlying the conflict
is that these are somehow contradictory visions rather than complementary
ones.

 **AT:** After the recent sharp rise in the bitcoin exchange rate, some people
now warn against further investing in bitcoin and some even say this could be
compared to the tulip mania in 17th century Holland. Your thoughts on this?

 **KG:** This is exactly what the same people always say, year after year, and
Bitcoin is still going strong, closing in on nine years with basically no
downtime. I first came across this argument in spring 2013 in the run-up to
about $250, but apparently it had already been expressed in 2011 in the run-up
to about $30. It may be fair to argue at times that the bitcoin price is in a
bubble _phase_ , but it is another claim entirely to argue that the thing
itself _is_ a bubble—and nothing more.

My sense is that this kind of “nothing but a bubble” thinking is often
associated with minimal to no understanding of how Bitcoin works on a
technical level. In the absence of such understanding, these critics can only
envision a vague nothingness in place of Bitcoin’s technical underpinnings.
Yet since many clear descriptions are now available for free online from
beginner to advanced, such claims seem to indicate a willingness to comment
without learning.

 **AT:** Some think that blockchain technology will have huge consequences for
society in terms of decentralization. They say that this technology will give
small, decentralized entities an edge over big centralized organizations. Some
even say that the existence of big companies like Google or even states could
be threatened by blockchain technology. Do they have a point?

 **KG:** From my perspective, there are two main implications of the first
blockchain. First, bitcoin units are a medium of exchange and potential form
of money that has arisen from the private sector—actually the informal
sector—not from the state. This deflates the old chartalist claim that money
can only come from the state, or at least can survive only with the state’s
blessing. In contrast, it took states years to even start to notice it.

Second, Bitcoin enables people to transact without third-party intermediation.
Let us call it “permissionless transacting.” Every other kind of remote
transacting requires some third-party facilitation, often by a bank. But the
position of facilitator comes with the ability to _refuse_ to facilitate,
whether through corporate policy or because authorities order it. It also
comes with the ability to track and create a permanent record of spending,
including dates, parties, places, and amounts, destroying privacy.

With Bitcoin, states can certainly take steps to outlaw certain types of
transactions, but unlike with banking systems, authorities cannot block
transactions to begin with. They can only seek to prosecute criminalized acts
after they are committed. In societies that purport to respect due process and
the rule of law, this happens to be all that such authorities are supposed to
be doing anyway—in contrast to the PreCrime Division in the science-fiction
story _Minority Report_.

As for “decentralized” and “centralized” in Bitcoin discussions, these are
first of all computer-science concepts. A network is either designed with a
center, such as a conventional server/client system, or without one, in which
case the center has been taken out of the design, thus “decentralized.” With
Bitcoin, this mainly refers to adopting a peer-to-peer architecture and not
having any central currency issuer that could manipulate supply.

I think these computer-science terms have come to be used in a vague mix-up
with economics concepts such as monopoly and competition, scale and industry
competitiveness. They can generate more confused ideas than useful analyses.
Economies of scale in different industries, and other factors influencing
relative firm sizes, are not necessarily going to magically transform because
there now exists a non-state money lacking a central issuer that can be used
without third-party facilitation.

 **AT:** Could you explain what the essence of blockchain technology is? What
makes it so great?

 **KG:** I would recommend reading my
[article](http://www.konradsgraf.com/blog1/2014/9/19/bitcoin-magic-fraud-or-
sufficiently-advanced-technology.html?rq=magic) on this topic with respect to
the technology and methods behind Bitcoin for a fuller picture, both of the
scale of the invention and why people have such a hard time understanding it.
In essence, Bitcoin combined at least four major elements, most of which were
first developed within about the past 40 years. Most people do not
understanding any of these elements, or maybe only one or two of them, and
then vaguely. These are hash functions, digital signatures, peer-to-peer
architecture, and open-source development. So of course people who understand
few or none of the parts cannot hope to understand a whole that combined them
into something far greater than their sum.

One key thing that a blockchain _does_ is form an unforgeable record of past
information, with new information continually being added at the end of the
chain. Thus, while new information can be added, that already recorded cannot
be erased or revised in the slightest way. This history cannot be rewritten.
The fact that the tradable bitcoin units have a market value is also essential
to financing the mining network in a decentralized way. The system’s security
and the unit’s market value are interdependent.

There has been a movement to define “blockchain” as the “real” innovation of
the Bitcoin system, with the bitcoin (monetary unit) part being just sort of
one silly initial idea for using a blockchain. According to this view, it is
the “many other applications” and different sorts of “tokens” that are really
exciting. I think this is completely backwards.

While it is true that a blockchain design _might_ have some useful
applications other than digital cash and if these are indeed made to work in
practice and gain real users, that would certainly be positive, a blockchain
is an extremely cumbersome and expensive thing. This means there ought to be
compelling reasons for using a blockchain rather than a simpler, faster, and
cheaper design. The blockchain design was created to solve a very specific
problem—how to create scarce digital cash with no central issuer. For most
applications other than digital cash, however, a blockchain is probably
wasteful, unnecessary, and over-hyped—unless proven otherwise through actual
use as opposed to marketing pitches.

 **AT:** It is said that the core of blockchain technology is the math behind
it. The solution to the so-called “Byzantine Generals Problem”. Could you
describe what this problem is and how blockchain technology solved the issue?

 **KG:** The problem is how to get different people in different places to
agree on the validity of a given piece of information without relying on
communications that could be compromised and falsified at source, in
transmission, or both.

The lynchpin of the solution that Satoshi found was in a characteristic of
hash functions. A hash is a “one-way function.” Information goes in and one
specific hash of that information comes out. However, the hash cannot be used
in the other direction to reconstruct any of the original information.

In Bitcoin, miners have to find a hash that is below a certain value. Visibly,
it has to begin with a certain number of zeros.

> 000000000000000000aebd4d821ad8ee2ef30c4aaccc7619ce309d8570f7fb9b

The “difficulty adjustment” changes this threshold. The miners have to
increment a random number field and keep looking for resulting hashes until
they find one that is below a certain value. It is unimaginably difficult to
come up with a valid hash within the difficulty requirement to begin with. It
takes billions of trial and error attempts to do so. However, it is trivial to
check afterwards whether a given proposed hash is valid for the block.

So solving the hash of the next block (“mining”) is extremely difficult. And
the solution cannot be forged or falsified because anyone on the network can
quickly verify whether a proposed solution is valid. A valid solution serves
as a proof that work must have been done to find it, and is therefore called a
“proof of work.” There is no short-cut way to arrive at a valid hash other
than doing the hashing work, which means investing in facilities and equipment
and consuming electricity to brute force the hash for each specific block
candidate.

So returning to the “Byzantine Generals” situation, with proof-of-work, an
invalid message can always be revealed as such because it can be checked using
the information in the message itself, after it arrives. The message as it
arrives contains all the information needed to establish whether it is a valid
message or not in relation to the chain it proposes to extend. There is no
need to establish whether it was falsified in transmission. It does not matter
if it was. It is still either valid or not as it presents itself wherever it
arrives.

Another key trick to make this work is that each miner’s valid hash is only
valid for that miner because his own reward address is already incorporated
into his candidate block before the hash is found. That reward address is part
of what is being hashed. Therefore, no others validating a proposed answer can
just expropriate it for their own benefit. That particular answer they are
examining _already builds in_ the winning miner’s own address for collecting
the block reward being sought.

 **AT:** Bitcoin has a limit of 21 million bitcoins that can ever be mined.
But in August, the Bitcoin blockchain was split into Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash.
So, isn’t the production potential limitless, then, like with central banks?
And even out of the Bitcoin blockchain, limitless other digital coins could be
created. Couldn’t this threat the value of the Bitcoins?

 **KG:** This is a fascinating topic and I also wrote an article about it
[here](http://www.konradsgraf.com/blog1/2017/8/19/btc-plus-bcc-showing-strong-
combined-gains). Essentially, both bitcoin (BTC) and bitcoin cash (BCH) are
valid continuations of the previous Bitcoin blockchain, but the two are now
permanently separated. They can never interact again as the same chain. It is
a little like speciation in the natural world. Though long-separated groups of
life forms share a common ancestor in the distant past, they have changed such
that when descendants meet again later, they can no longer interbreed—and this
is irreversible. In this case, a Bitcoin “speciation” event happened on August
1, 2017 when blocks were found that some versions of the software found valid
and other versions did not find valid because of specific differences in the
rules those respective versions were enforcing.

As for the claim that this split was inflationary, I will quote from my
article on this, because I don’t think I can say it better a second time:

> “Zero ‘new bitcoins’ have been created from a monetary-inflation standpoint.
> Control of any existing bitcoin unit before the split gave rise to
> corresponding control of one BTC and one BCH unit after the split. Since
> this reflected the precise and complete pre-existing constellation of unit
> control with no alteration for each and all former holders of the single-
> chain BTC, no redistributive [Cantillon
> effects](https://wiki.mises.org/wiki/Richard_Cantillon) follow.”

Cantillon effects, for those unfamiliar with the term, refer to changes in the
distribution of wealth among money holders when new money goes first to some
users rather than others. In this case, every existing BTC unit became in the
same moment one BTC unit and one BCH unit for each holder.

I have also [argued](http://www.konradsgraf.com/blog1/2017/8/19/btc-plus-bcc-
showing-strong-combined-gains) that the fact that combined prices of BTC and
BCH rose in the weeks that followed, and dramatically, may suggest net value
added for holders. This could be because of a market perception that the
various development teams can now proceed more smoothly with their respective
scaling visions, and we can see what actually becomes of these efforts in
reality, rather than being limited to models, talk, and promises.

Of course, anyone could split a chain at any time and continue it with certain
modified rules, but it is an entirely different matter for such a chain to
gain any economic value, and particularly any investment of scarce SHA256
mining power. The most likely outcome is just that no one mines a fork and it
does not continue: extinction.

Yet both BTC and BCH chains have survived to the present time. BCH has
maintained a market price that has ranged from $200–900, and is currently
about $350. In quite recent memory, that was considered a high price for the
pre-split BTC. This outcome was not at all a given.

An infinite number of new chain splits without any real economic justification
or real-world support from miners should just result in an infinite amount of
nothing happening, as each one dies off quickly or never really gets started.
For daughter chains that do survive—in this case BTC and BCH both have—this
survival itself may imply some perceived net value added for holders of the
pre-split coin. The two are now competitors, along with all the other
cryptocurrenices. This chain split was quite distinct from the crop of many
hundreds of other cryptocurrencies, which are new chains started with their
own rule-sets and fresh structures of coin ownership.

 **AT:** Bitcoin detractors contend that the volume of Bitcoin trade is
limited and the technology could not manage the number of transactions that
take place with fiat money every day. What do you think?

 **KG:** The volume of bitcoin transacting on the BTC chain has come to be
artificially limited relative to demand by a 1MB block size limit that has
been in place since 2010. BCH was one effort to address this by raising the
protocol block size limit to 8MB. That is a level that is once again well
above current regular demand, as it was for the limit’s entire previous
history until recent years. Another effort to address transaction volume
entails building cryptographic systems that enable trading that is “off-
chain,” but purportedly preserves the quality of permissionless transacting
denominated in bitcoin.

I do not see any contradiction between these models, as I have explained
[here](https://news.bitcoin.com/konrad-graf-bitcoin-block-size-economy/), but
since many involved do seem to treat these more as competing than
complementary approaches—and have made a competitive sport of belittling and
insulting those whose views differ on this matter—this has contributed to the
chain split, possible future chain splits, and the overall level of political-
style contention.

My own take is that on-chain and various existing and proposed off-chain
options should be treated as dynamically limiting competitors in a
relationship of synergy and competition. If an off-chain option actually
offers superior characteristics in terms of cost and speed, it will naturally
draw some business off the main chain, reducing on-chain traffic (and fees).
This could enable certain types of traffic off chain that would not have taken
place on chain.

At the same time, the off-chain options themselves require some on-chain
transactions, for example, to open and close payment channels or to create a
unit link with a sidechain. If such options come into wide use, they could in
turn lift on-chain traffic themselves. So the factors operate in both
directions and in unpredictable ways. On- and off-chain options can _both_
create business for each other _and_ take business away from each other in a
complex and unpredictable interaction. The presence of both expands the sphere
of end-user choices. In this kind of situation, on-chain and off-chain options
ought to be free to compete with each other in practice, as opposed to
“competing” within models and promising-contests.

I view the block size _limit_ as it now stands as artificially favoring off-
chain solutions in the context of this natural competition for traffic.
Promoting the continuation of an industrywide ceiling on the provision of on-
chain transaction-inclusion services has lifted the price of on-chain
transacting well beyond what it otherwise would have been at this early stage
of Bitcoin’s development. Numerous Bitcoin businesses have left the BTC chain
due to this, at least for now.

Meanwhile, most of the promised off-chain second-layer ideas are not actually
available for users yet. Nor is there any guarantee how much users will adopt
these when they do arrive. These solutions work remarkably well in the minds
of the people building and promoting them and in the imaginations of others
who look forward to their arrival. However, such beliefs can never replace an
actual market adoption test. Nevertheless, on-chain capacity has already been
left restricted today relative to growing demand _before_ promised alternative
transacting solutions have a) arrived and b) actually been adopted by users.

One result has been a ballooning of the market value of other
cryptocurrencies. As the retention of the current block size limit on the BTC
chain has pushed actually working Bitcoin business models away, BTC has fallen
from about 85–90% of the total valuation of all cryptocurrencies to 45–50%.
This is so _despite_ BTC’s overwhelming first-mover advantages in network
effect and active developer talent. First-mover advantage is quite powerful,
but it is not all-powerful.

 **AT:** An [article](https://www.nzz.ch/wirtschaft/wettbewerb-der-waehrungen-
kann-der-bitcoin-die-notenbanken-in-bedraengnis-bringen-ld.1314854) in the
Swiss newspaper Neue Zuricher Zeitung covers a conference of economists in
Vienna where Bitcoin critics met. Several arguments against the future of
Bitcoin were made, amongst others from Adi Shamir, who is said to be one of
the co-developers of the cryptographic basics on which Bitcoin technology was
built. He states that there are not enough Bitcoins because the number is
limited to 21 million. To my knowledge, Bitcoin is dividable nearly endlessly.
And, as Murray Rothbard said, that once money has been established in the
market, every quantity is “optimal." There is no social profit in increasing
the money supply. What are your thoughts?

 **KG:** As you point out, there are two separate issues, divisibility and
inflation. First of all, the actual unit used within Bitcoin software is
called a satoshi, and the maximum number of those is 2.1 quadrillion
(2,100,000,000,000,000). That is 280,000 units per person on Earth at the
current global population of 7.5 billion. A “bitcoin” is just an arbitrary
accounting unit of 100,000,000 satoshis, and one that the Bitcoin system
itself does not even recognize. Wallets and exchanges use the convention of a
“bitcoin” only for intuitive convenience.

Off-chain systems such as payment channels could already increment even
smaller amounts. It would also be possible to alter the Bitcoin software so
that it directly recognizes units smaller than a satoshi, though there is no
guarantee this would ever be done.

Other than these issues of divisibility, most people complaining about limited
supply are just inflationists and I wrote about them
[here](http://www.konradsgraf.com/blog1/2013/3/30/a-short-bitcoin-commentary-
on-deflation-and-liberty.html). The opposite of inflation is deflation, which
for most practical purposes means that the monetary unit is gaining value
rather than losing it. Although the total bitcoin stock will continue to
expand for quite some time, its rate of expansion steadily declines,
eventually reaching zero. Nevertheless, it can still be viewed as deflationary
in the sense of having a rising purchasing power over time. The great Jörg
Guido Hülsmann described why such rising value is so significant for society
in _Deflation and Liberty_ :

> “Deflation…abolishes the advantage that inflation-based debt finance enjoys,
> at the margin, over savings-based equity finance. And it therefore
> decentralizes financial decision-making and makes banks, firms, and
> individuals more prudent and self-reliant than they would have been under
> inflation. Most importantly, deflation eradicates the re-channeling of
> incomes that result from the monopoly privileges of central banks. It thus
> destroys the economic basis of the false elites and obliges them to become
> true elites rather quickly, or abdicate and make way for new entrepreneurs
> and other social leaders…

> Deflation is at least potentially a great liberating force. It not only
> brings the inflated monetary system back to rock bottom, it brings the
> entire society back in touch with the real world, because it destroys the
> economic basis of the social engineers, spin doctors, and brain washers.
> (pp. 40–41).”

Here is that word “decentralize” again, this time in an explicitly economic
rather than computer-science context. Deflation “decentralizes financial
decision making” means that people who spend their own saved money instead of
spending borrowed money (or state handouts) have more autonomy and
independence. This is because they do not have to seek the approval of
creditors or VCs (or welfare bureaucrats) with regard to whether they get
funding and how they use the funds. Yet this distinction also applies to any
size of entity that is in a position to invest its own money instead of
someone else’s, to act using savings rather than debt. A rising-value unit
encourages savings while falling-value units—such as all fiat
currencies—encourage debt and unhealthy dependence.

Bitcoin has arrived as the first rising-value medium of exchange seen in a
long time. Inflation- and debt-addicted and dependent governments would
certainly never have created such a thing.

[__October 11, 2017](/blog1/2017/10/10/bitcoin-blockchains-and-economic-
theory-an-interview-with-konrad-s-graf) / [__Konrad
Graf](/blog1?author=5720adbcb6aa6055fa279727) /
[__[](/blog1/2017/10/10/bitcoin-blockchains-and-economic-theory-an-interview-
with-konrad-s-graf) ](/blog1/2017/10/10/bitcoin-blockchains-and-economic-
theory-an-interview-with-konrad-s-graf)

__[Bitcoin](/blog1/category/Bitcoin), [Economic
theory](/blog1/category/Economic+theory)

__[Ludwig von Mises](/blog1/tag/Ludwig+von+Mises), [money](/blog1/tag/money),
[monetary theory](/blog1/tag/monetary+theory), [Satoshi
Nakamoto](/blog1/tag/Satoshi+Nakamoto), [Bitcoin
Cash](/blog1/tag/Bitcoin+Cash), [Bitcoin](/blog1/tag/Bitcoin)

### [Konrad Graf](/blog1?author=5720adbcb6aa6055fa279727)

  * [__Barbell and beef ...](/blog1/2017/11/21/barbell-and-beef-experimentslessons-and-customizations "Barbell and beef experiments—Lessons and customizations")
  * [BTC plus BCC showing strong ... __](/blog1/2017/8/19/btc-plus-bcc-showing-strong-combined-gains "BTC plus BCC showing strong combined gains as market attention shifts to next controversy")

  * [About](/)/
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)/
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)/
  * Evolutionary Health/

    * [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health)
    * [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)

  * [Translation](/translation)/
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)/
  * [Blog](/blog1)/
  * [Contact](/contact)/

### Konrad S. Graf

Research and writing portal for the work of Konrad S. Graf. Focus areas
include monetary theory and bitcoin, legal philosophy,  evolutionary health,
Japanese translation, and Spacial Dynamics.

[Blog RSS](http://feeds.feedburner.com/Blog-KonradSGraf "Blog RSS")

[![Creative Commons
License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/80x15.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)  
This site is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

  * [ December 2020 ](/blog1?month=12-2020)
    * Dec 8, 2020  [Texas sues four states for violating the Electors Clause: Initial summary and comment](/blog1/2020/12/8/texas-sues-pa-ga-mi-and-wi-for-violating-the-electors-clause-initial-summary-and-comment) Dec 8, 2020 
  * [ December 2019 ](/blog1?month=12-2019)
    * Dec 24, 2019  [New paper: The Bitcoin Block Size Limit, Artificial Scarcity, and Code-Enhanced Public Club Governance](/blog1/2019/12/24/new-paper-the-bitcoin-block-size-limit-artificial-scarcity-and-code-enhanced-public-club-governance) Dec 24, 2019 
  * [ October 2019 ](/blog1?month=10-2019)
    * Oct 1, 2019  [Sound Money Strikes at the Root: A Review Essay on The Bitcoin Standard](/blog1/2019/10/1/sound-money-strikes-at-the-root-a-review-essay-on-the-bitcoin-standard) Oct 1, 2019 
  * [ April 2019 ](/blog1?month=04-2019)
    * Apr 26, 2019  [Justice as distinct from rule through law](/blog1/2019/4/26/justice-as-distinct-from-rule-through-law) Apr 26, 2019 
  * [ November 2018 ](/blog1?month=11-2018)
    * Nov 30, 2018  [Speaking with one-year-olds and beyond: Age-appropriateness, healthy authority, and social implications](/blog1/2018/11/30/speaking-with-one-year-olds-and-beyond-age-appropriateness-healthy-authority-and-social-implications) Nov 30, 2018 
  * [ December 2017 ](/blog1?month=12-2017)
    * Dec 20, 2017  [Why can't I see that Bitcoin Cash is a scam?](/blog1/2017/12/20/why-cant-i-see-that-bitcoin-cash-is-a-scam) Dec 20, 2017 
  * [ November 2017 ](/blog1?month=11-2017)
    * Nov 21, 2017  [Barbell and beef experiments—Lessons and customizations](/blog1/2017/11/21/barbell-and-beef-experimentslessons-and-customizations) Nov 21, 2017 
  * [ October 2017 ](/blog1?month=10-2017)
    * Oct 11, 2017  [Interview: Bitcoin, blockchains, and economic theory](/blog1/2017/10/10/bitcoin-blockchains-and-economic-theory-an-interview-with-konrad-s-graf) Oct 11, 2017 
  * [ August 2017 ](/blog1?month=08-2017)
    * Aug 20, 2017  [BTC plus BCC showing strong combined gains as market attention shifts to next controversy](/blog1/2017/8/19/btc-plus-bcc-showing-strong-combined-gains) Aug 20, 2017 
    * Aug 5, 2017  [Descendants with modifications: Bitcoin’s new and possibly beneficial evolutionary test](/blog1/2017/8/5/descendants-with-modifications-bitcoins-new-and-possibly-beneficial-evolutionary-test) Aug 5, 2017 
  * [ July 2017 ](/blog1?month=07-2017)
    * Jul 23, 2017  [Additional Issues with the Balance and Accuracy of the Anti-Musk Narrative](/blog1/2017/7/23/77vber91a23965ptgjnph82ktt51f9) Jul 23, 2017 
    * Jul 23, 2017  [A Mixed Hero: A Libertarian Reassessment of Elon Musk](/blog1/2017/7/22/hnbbsghwp2hf881mjakf4q2sjnxwh3) Jul 23, 2017 
    * Jul 9, 2017  [Outlines of a Unified Evolutionary Theory of Human and Environmental Health](/blog1/2017/7/9/a-unified-evolutionary-theory-of-human-and-environmental-health) Jul 9, 2017 
  * [ October 2016 ](/blog1?month=10-2016)
    * Oct 15, 2016  [Yes and Nein: Borrowing the best from German and American cultures (and not borrowing the worst)](/blog1/2016/10/15/yes-and-nein-borrowing-the-best-from-german-and-american-cultures-and-not-borrowing-the-worst) Oct 15, 2016 
    * Oct 2, 2016  [Ancient travel food meets modern travel: My ultimate paleo travel meal option](/blog1/2016/10/2/ancient-meets-modern-my-ultimate-paleo-travel-meal-option) Oct 2, 2016 
  * [ September 2016 ](/blog1?month=09-2016)
    * Sep 29, 2016  [SpaceX can get there, but biology a probable Mars residence limiter](/blog1/2016/9/29/spacex-can-get-there-but-biology-likely-a-critical-mars-residence-limiter) Sep 29, 2016 
  * [ August 2016 ](/blog1?month=08-2016)
    * Aug 16, 2016  [The curious case of the faster-healing knee and the larger steaks](/blog1/2016/8/2/the-curious-case-of-the-faster-healing-knee-and-the-larger-steaks) Aug 16, 2016 
  * [ July 2016 ](/blog1?month=07-2016)
    * Jul 10, 2016  [Block Size Political Economy Follow-Up 3: Differentiation from the 21-million Coin Production Schedule](/blog1/2016/7/8/block-size-political-economy-follow-up-3-differentiation-from-the-21-million-coin-production-schedule) Jul 10, 2016 
    * Jul 9, 2016  [Block Size Political Economy Follow-Up 2: Market Intervention through Voluntary Community Rules](/blog1/2016/7/8/block-size-political-economy-follow-up-2-market-intervention-through-voluntary-community-rules) Jul 9, 2016 
    * Jul 8, 2016  [Block Size Political Economy Follow-Up 1: Software Choice, Market Differentiation, and Term Selection](/blog1/2016/7/8/block-size-political-economy-follow-up-1-software-choice-market-differentiation-and-term-selection) Jul 8, 2016 
  * [ April 2016 ](/blog1?month=04-2016)
    * Apr 22, 2016  [Only the faster profits: A powerful health measure and why it is unadvertised](/blog1/2016/4/22/only-the-faster-profits-a-powerful-health-measure-and-why-it.html) Apr 22, 2016 
  * [ February 2016 ](/blog1?month=02-2016)
    * Feb 4, 2016  [Some misplaced explanations of bitcoins as tradable units](/blog1/2016/2/4/some-misplaced-explanations-of-bitcoins-as-tradable-units.html) Feb 4, 2016 
  * [ November 2015 ](/blog1?month=11-2015)
    * Nov 8, 2015  [Announcing new book on bitcoin and legal theory](/blog1/2015/11/8/announcing-new-book-on-bitcoin-and-legal-theory.html) Nov 8, 2015 
  * [ June 2015 ](/blog1?month=06-2015)
    * Jun 20, 2015  [Preview: “The market for bitcoin transaction inclusion and the temporal root of scarcity”](/blog1/2015/6/20/preview-the-market-for-bitcoin-transaction-inclusion-and-the.html) Jun 20, 2015 
  * [ March 2015 ](/blog1?month=03-2015)
    * Mar 11, 2015  [Bitcoin as a rival digital commodity good: A supplementary comment](/blog1/2015/3/11/bitcoin-as-a-rival-digital-commodity-good-a-supplementary-co.html) Mar 11, 2015 
  * [ February 2015 ](/blog1?month=02-2015)
    * Feb 15, 2015  [Jeff Volek presents research indicating low-carb also best way to improve lipid profiles](/blog1/2015/2/15/jeff-volek-presents-research-indicating-low-carb-also-best-w.html) Feb 15, 2015 
  * [ October 2014 ](/blog1?month=10-2014)
    * Oct 25, 2014  [Sidechained bitcoin substitutes: A monetary commentary](/blog1/2014/10/25/sidechained-bitcoin-substitutes-a-monetary-commentary.html) Oct 25, 2014 
  * [ September 2014 ](/blog1?month=09-2014)
    * Sep 19, 2014  [Bitcoin: Magic, fraud, or 'sufficiently advanced technology'?](/blog1/2014/9/19/bitcoin-magic-fraud-or-sufficiently-advanced-technology.html) Sep 19, 2014 
  * [ August 2014 ](/blog1?month=08-2014)
    * Aug 27, 2014  [A tale of bitcoins and $500 suits: Will a rising-value currency not be used?](/blog1/2014/8/27/a-tale-of-bitcoins-and-500-suits-will-a-rising-value-currenc.html) Aug 27, 2014 
    * Aug 21, 2014  ["Bitcoin 2014 Panel: History of Money & Lessons for Digital Currencies Today" with time-based outline](/blog1/2014/8/21/bitcoin-2014-panel-history-of-money-lessons-for-digital-curr.html) Aug 21, 2014 
    * Aug 19, 2014  [“Bitcoin 2014 Panel: Economic Theory of Bitcoin” with time-based outline](/blog1/2014/8/19/bitcoin-2014-panel-economic-theory-of-bitcoin-with-time-base.html) Aug 19, 2014 
  * [ May 2014 ](/blog1?month=05-2014)
    * May 21, 2014  [Gold standards, optionality, and parallel metallic- and crypto-coin circulations](/blog1/2014/5/21/gold-standards-optionality-and-parallel-metallic-and-crypto.html) May 21, 2014 
    * May 20, 2014  [The helpful fable of the "bitcoin": Duality models revisited](/blog1/2014/5/20/the-helpful-fable-of-the-bitcoin-duality-models-revisited.html) May 20, 2014 
    * May 1, 2014  [Bitcoin weekly weighted average price, July 2010 through April 2014](/blog1/2014/5/1/bitcoin-weekly-weighted-average-price-july-2010-through-apri.html) May 1, 2014 
  * [ March 2014 ](/blog1?month=03-2014)
    * Mar 18, 2014  [New paper: "Revisiting conceptions of commodity and scarcity in light of Bitcoin"](/blog1/2014/3/18/new-paper-revisiting-conceptions-of-commodity-and-scarcity-i.html) Mar 18, 2014 
    * Mar 12, 2014  [Another layer of distinction behind Tucker’s humanitarians and brutalists ](/blog1/2014/3/12/another-layer-of-distinction-behind-tuckers-humanitarians-an.html) Mar 12, 2014 
    * Mar 6, 2014  [Newsweek uncovers its own lack of integrity in alleged “Satoshi Nakamoto” discovery reporting](/blog1/2014/3/6/newsweek-uncovers-its-own-lack-of-integrity-in-alleged-satos.html) Mar 6, 2014 
  * [ February 2014 ](/blog1?month=02-2014)
    * Feb 27, 2014  [MtGox fiasco highlights advantages of Bitcoin and damage from regulation](/blog1/2014/2/27/mtgox-fiasco-highlights-advantages-of-bitcoin-and-damage-fro.html) Feb 27, 2014 
    * Feb 14, 2014  [Summary update on Bitcoin transaction malleability adjustments](/blog1/2014/2/14/summary-update-on-bitcoin-transaction-malleability-adjustmen.html) Feb 14, 2014 
  * [ January 2014 ](/blog1?month=01-2014)
    * Jan 13, 2014  [Legal and economic perspectives in the action-based analysis of Bitcoin](/blog1/2014/1/13/legal-and-economic-perspectives-in-the-action-based-analysis.html) Jan 13, 2014 
  * [ November 2013 ](/blog1?month=11-2013)
    * Nov 7, 2013  [Hyper-monetization reloaded: Another round of bubble talk](/blog1/2013/11/7/hyper-monetization-reloaded-another-round-of-bubble-talk.html) Nov 7, 2013 
    * Nov 3, 2013  [Expanded "On the origins of Bitcoin" paper with empirical supplements, other revisions](/blog1/2013/11/3/expanded-on-the-origins-of-bitcoin-paper-with-empirical-supp.html) Nov 3, 2013 
  * [ October 2013 ](/blog1?month=10-2013)
    * Oct 25, 2013  [Strong positive response to "On the origins of Bitcoin"](/blog1/2013/10/25/strong-positive-response-to-on-the-origins-of-bitcoin.html) Oct 25, 2013 
    * Oct 23, 2013  ["On the origins of Bitcoin," my new work on Bitcoin and monetary theory](/blog1/2013/10/23/on-the-origins-of-bitcoin-my-new-work-on-bitcoin-and-monetar.html) Oct 23, 2013 
    * Oct 3, 2013  [Bitcoin and social theory reflections: A review essay between Amsterdam and Atlanta](/blog1/2013/10/3/bitcoin-and-social-theory-reflections-a-review-essay-between.html) Oct 3, 2013 
  * [ September 2013 ](/blog1?month=09-2013)
    * Sep 15, 2013  [The labor, leisure, and happiness game: Psychology, praxeology, and ethics](/blog1/2013/9/15/the-labor-leisure-and-happiness-game-psychology-praxeology-a.html) Sep 15, 2013 
    * Sep 14, 2013  [Bitcoin as medium of exchange now and unit of account later: The inverse of Koning's medieval coins](/blog1/2013/9/14/bitcoin-as-medium-of-exchange-now-and-unit-of-account-later.html) Sep 14, 2013 
  * [ August 2013 ](/blog1?month=08-2013)
    * Aug 22, 2013  [Recommended: Provocative and important new article on Bitcoin and altcoins](/blog1/2013/8/22/recommended-provocative-and-important-new-article-on-bitcoin.html) Aug 22, 2013 
    * Aug 21, 2013  [A banking risk premium: Mt. Gox XBT/USD spread over Bitstamp](/blog1/2013/8/21/a-banking-risk-premium-mt-gox-xbtusd-spread-over-bitstamp.html) Aug 21, 2013 
  * [ July 2013 ](/blog1?month=07-2013)
    * Jul 25, 2013  [Tiger cub growing up? Bitcoin weekly average closing prices year over year](/blog1/2013/7/25/tiger-cub-growing-up-bitcoin-weekly-average-closing-prices-y.html) Jul 25, 2013 
    * Jul 22, 2013  [Bitcoin, price denomination and fixed-rate fiat conversions](/blog1/2013/7/22/bitcoin-price-denomination-and-fixed-rate-fiat-conversions.html) Jul 22, 2013 
  * [ June 2013 ](/blog1?month=06-2013)
    * Jun 30, 2013  [Now in audio on YouTube: Bitcoin and regression theorem article](/blog1/2013/6/30/now-in-audio-on-youtube-bitcoin-and-regression-theorem-artic.html) Jun 30, 2013 
    * Jun 20, 2013  [Bitcoins per gold ounce weekly close YTD](/blog1/2013/6/20/bitcoins-per-gold-ounce-weekly-close-ytd.html) Jun 20, 2013 
    * Jun 3, 2013  [The m's and b's of millibitcoin redenomination](/blog1/2013/6/3/the-ms-and-bs-of-millibitcoin-redenomination.html) Jun 3, 2013 
  * [ April 2013 ](/blog1?month=04-2013)
    * Apr 13, 2013  [Another bump on the road: Bitcoin and bubbles revisited](/blog1/2013/4/13/another-bump-on-the-road-bitcoin-and-bubbles-revisited.html) Apr 13, 2013 
    * Apr 11, 2013  [Short-term Bitcoin exchange trends as Rorschach tests of economic views](/blog1/2013/4/11/short-term-bitcoin-exchange-trends-as-rorschach-tests-of-eco.html) Apr 11, 2013 
    * Apr 6, 2013  [Hyper-monetization: Questioning the "Bitcoin bubble" bubble](/blog1/2013/4/6/hyper-monetization-questioning-the-bitcoin-bubble-bubble.html) Apr 6, 2013 
  * [ March 2013 ](/blog1?month=03-2013)
    * Mar 30, 2013  [A short Bitcoin commentary on "Deflation and Liberty"](/blog1/2013/3/30/a-short-bitcoin-commentary-on-deflation-and-liberty.html) Mar 30, 2013 
    * Mar 19, 2013  [IN-DEPTH | The sound of one bitcoin: Tangibility, scarcity, and a "hard-money" checklist](/blog1/2013/3/19/in-depth-the-sound-of-one-bitcoin-tangibility-scarcity-and-a.html) Mar 19, 2013 
    * Mar 15, 2013  [Individualism, collectivism, "mere" birds, and how to understand ice hockey](/blog1/2013/3/15/individualism-collectivism-mere-birds-and-how-to-understand.html) Mar 15, 2013 
    * Mar 6, 2013  [Bitcoin and social-theory research highlights: Digging for kryptonite](/blog1/2013/3/6/bitcoin-and-social-theory-research-highlights-digging-for-kr.html) Mar 6, 2013 
  * [ February 2013 ](/blog1?month=02-2013)
    * Feb 27, 2013  [IN-DEPTH | Bitcoins, the regression theorem, and that curious but unthreatening empirical world](/blog1/2013/2/27/in-depth-bitcoins-the-regression-theorem-and-that-curious-bu.html) Feb 27, 2013 
    * Feb 20, 2013  [Misesian action theory is an approach to social theory, not just economics](/blog1/2013/2/20/misesian-action-theory-is-an-approach-to-social-theory-not-j.html) Feb 20, 2013 
    * Feb 16, 2013  [Reeva Steencamp's final message, academic hubris, and a legal philosophy view of the case](/blog1/2013/2/16/reeva-steencamps-final-message-academic-hubris-and-a-legal-p.html) Feb 16, 2013 
    * Feb 10, 2013  [Bank robber chatting with Bill Murray illustrates self-control theory](/blog1/2013/2/10/bank-robber-chatting-with-bill-murray-illustrates-self-contr.html) Feb 10, 2013 
    * Feb 1, 2013  [Action-Based Jurisprudence II: Down under (and back again)](/blog1/2013/2/1/action-based-jurisprudence-ii-down-under-and-back-again.html) Feb 1, 2013 
  * [ January 2013 ](/blog1?month=01-2013)
    * Jan 15, 2013  [BOOK COMMENT | The Constitution was already perfectly clear to begin with](/blog1/2013/1/15/book-comment-the-constitution-was-already-perfectly-clear-to.html) Jan 15, 2013 
  * [ November 2012 ](/blog1?month=11-2012)
    * Nov 8, 2012  [Another mummer's farce gone by (and more rumors of wogs and dragons)](/blog1/2012/11/8/another-mummers-farce-gone-by-and-more-rumors-of-wogs-and-dr.html) Nov 8, 2012 
  * [ August 2012 ](/blog1?month=08-2012)
    * Aug 25, 2012  [The problem with shouting “Tyranny!” in a crowded theater](/blog1/2012/8/25/the-problem-with-shouting-tyranny-in-a-crowded-theater.html) Aug 25, 2012 
    * Aug 16, 2012  [Resolving the paradox of value](/blog1/2012/8/16/resolving-the-paradox-of-value.html) Aug 16, 2012 
    * Aug 10, 2012  [IN-DEPTH | Logic takes on the physics paradoxes: Review essay on The Spacetime Model: A Theory of Everything by Jacky Jerôme](/blog1/2012/8/10/in-depth-logic-takes-on-the-physics-paradoxes-review-essay-o.html) Aug 10, 2012 
    * Aug 10, 2012  [IN-DEPTH | Ron Paul, Flatland, and the left–right long con: Beyond the Nolan Chart](/blog1/2012/8/10/in-depth-ron-paul-flatland-and-the-leftright-long-con-beyond.html) Aug 10, 2012 
    * Aug 10, 2012  [Two types of A Game of Apples](/blog1/2012/8/10/two-types-of-a-game-of-apples.html) Aug 10, 2012 
  * [ April 2012 ](/blog1?month=04-2012)
    * Apr 1, 2012  [REVIEW | Liberty message in Hunger Games book much weaker in film](/blog1/2012/4/1/review-liberty-message-in-hunger-games-book-much-weaker-in-f.html) Apr 1, 2012 
  * [ January 2012 ](/blog1?month=01-2012)
    * Jan 22, 2012  [REVIEW | Primal Body, Primal Mind by Nora Gedgaudas](/blog1/2012/1/22/review-primal-body-primal-mind-by-nora-gedgaudas.html) Jan 22, 2012 
    * Jan 18, 2012  [REVIEW | The Paleo Answer by Loren Cordain](/blog1/2012/1/18/review-the-paleo-answer-by-loren-cordain.html) Jan 18, 2012 
    * Jan 18, 2012  [REVIEW | Four Laws that Drive the Universe by Peter Atkins](/blog1/2012/1/18/review-four-laws-that-drive-the-universe-by-peter-atkins.html) Jan 18, 2012 
    * Jan 13, 2012  [Is the left–right spectrum in flatland? A better way to graph Ron Paul](/blog1/2012/1/13/is-the-leftright-spectrum-in-flatland-a-better-way-to-graph.html) Jan 13, 2012 
  * [ December 2011 ](/blog1?month=12-2011)
    * Dec 31, 2011  [REVIEW | Cells, Gels, and the Engines of Life by Gerald H. Pollack](/blog1/2011/12/31/review-cells-gels-and-the-engines-of-life-by-gerald-h-pollac.html) Dec 31, 2011 
    * Dec 23, 2011  [REVIEW | Focused progress with Body by Science, but integration with proper running methods should be possible](/blog1/2011/12/23/review-focused-progress-with-body-by-science-but-integration.html) Dec 23, 2011 
  * [ November 2011 ](/blog1?month=11-2011)
    * Nov 11, 2011  [Who was it that lived at the corner of Tech and Humanities?](/blog1/2011/11/11/who-was-it-that-lived-at-the-corner-of-tech-and-humanities.html) Nov 11, 2011 
  * [ August 2011 ](/blog1?month=08-2011)
    * Aug 30, 2011  [On more robust theoretical foundations for legal philosophy](/blog1/2011/8/30/on-more-robust-theoretical-foundations-for-legal-philosophy.html) Aug 30, 2011 
  * [ August 2010 ](/blog1?month=08-2010)
    * Aug 5, 2010  [My top six picks out of the 26 books I read in Jan–Jun 2010](/blog1/2010/8/5/my-top-six-picks-out-of-the-26-books-i-read-in-janjun-2010.html) Aug 5, 2010 
  * [ January 2010 ](/blog1?month=01-2010)
    * Jan 3, 2010  [REVIEW | Avatar: Storyworld creation, justice and environmentalism on Pandora and Earth](/blog1/2010/1/3/review-avatar-storyworld-creation-justice-and-environmentali.html) Jan 3, 2010 
    * Jan 2, 2010  [2009 H2 reading and audiobook results](/blog1/2010/1/2/2009-h2-reading-and-audiobook-results.html) Jan 2, 2010 
  * [ December 2009 ](/blog1?month=12-2009)
    * Dec 2, 2009  [REVIEW | The Gods Themselves and climate-science Orwellianism: Is optimism still possible?](/blog1/2009/12/2/review-the-gods-themselves-and-climate-science-orwellianism.html) Dec 2, 2009 
  * [ September 2009 ](/blog1?month=09-2009)
    * Sep 21, 2009  [Getting to the Core of the Energy Debate](/blog1/2009/9/21/getting-to-the-core-of-the-energy-debate.html) Sep 21, 2009 
  * [ July 2009 ](/blog1?month=07-2009)
    * Jul 9, 2009  [2009 H1 results](/blog1/2009/7/9/2009-h1-results.html) Jul 9, 2009 
    * Jul 3, 2009  [REVIEW | The Ethics of Money Production by Jörg Guido Hülsmann](/blog1/2009/7/3/review-the-ethics-of-money-production-by-jorg-guido-hulsmann.html) Jul 3, 2009 
  * [ February 2009 ](/blog1?month=02-2009)
    * Feb 20, 2009  [Vaclav Klaus hits the right notes before the European Parliament](/blog1/2009/2/20/vaclav-klaus-hits-the-right-notes-before-the-european-parlia.html) Feb 20, 2009 
    * Feb 17, 2009  [The miles per gallon illusion](/blog1/2009/2/17/the-miles-per-gallon-illusion.html) Feb 17, 2009 
    * Feb 17, 2009  ["Enemies of liberty" more accurately located](/blog1/2009/2/17/enemies-of-liberty-more-accurately-located.html) Feb 17, 2009 
    * Feb 4, 2009  [IN-DEPTH | President Obama's inaugural address—analysis and commentary](/blog1/2009/2/4/in-depth-president-obamas-inaugural-addressanalysis-and-comm.html) Feb 4, 2009 
  * [ January 2009 ](/blog1?month=01-2009)
    * Jan 20, 2009  [Open letter to Bloomberg reporters on "economists of all stripes" claim](/blog1/2009/1/20/open-letter-to-bloomberg-reporters-on-economists-of-all-stri.html) Jan 20, 2009 
    * Jan 6, 2009  [Journalism values dead in US MSM, judging from its coverage of Gaza](/blog1/2009/1/6/journalism-values-dead-in-us-msm-judging-from-its-coverage-o.html) Jan 6, 2009 
  * [ December 2008 ](/blog1?month=12-2008)
    * Dec 31, 2008  [My year by the numbers](/blog1/2008/12/31/my-year-by-the-numbers.html) Dec 31, 2008 
    * Dec 15, 2008  [What can one person do?](/blog1/2008/12/15/what-can-one-person-do.html) Dec 15, 2008 
  * [ November 2008 ](/blog1?month=11-2008)
    * Nov 26, 2008  [Washington State Constitution: Article I, Section 1](/blog1/2008/11/26/washington-state-constitution-article-i-section-1.html) Nov 26, 2008 
    * Nov 20, 2008  [A formula to help with the "Inevitable Question"](/blog1/2008/11/20/a-formula-to-help-with-the-inevitable-question.html) Nov 20, 2008 
    * Nov 20, 2008  [The perfect crime is the one not detected](/blog1/2008/11/20/the-perfect-crime-is-the-one-not-detected.html) Nov 20, 2008 
    * Nov 5, 2008  [1% for Obama; 100% for Brother](/blog1/2008/11/5/1-for-obama-100-for-brother.html) Nov 5, 2008 
  * [ October 2008 ](/blog1?month=10-2008)
    * Oct 31, 2008  ["Successes" of intervention; the emotional challenge of looking at the truth](/blog1/2008/10/31/successes-of-intervention-the-emotional-challenge-of-looking.html) Oct 31, 2008 
  * [ August 2008 ](/blog1?month=08-2008)
    * Aug 26, 2008  [REVIEW | Law and Revolution II: Religion, law, and economic transformation](/blog1/2008/8/26/review-law-and-revolution-ii-religion-law-and-economic-trans.html) Aug 26, 2008 
  * [ July 2008 ](/blog1?month=07-2008)
    * Jul 4, 2008  [Who needs war and crime?](/blog1/2008/7/4/who-needs-war-and-crime.html) Jul 4, 2008 
  * [ June 2008 ](/blog1?month=06-2008)
    * Jun 24, 2008  [REVIEW | Unstoppable Global Warming by Fred Singer and Dennis Avery](/blog1/2008/6/24/review-unstoppable-global-warming-by-fred-singer-and-dennis.html) Jun 24, 2008 
    * Jun 17, 2008  [Prices should be falling](/blog1/2008/6/17/prices-should-be-falling.html) Jun 17, 2008 
  * [ April 2008 ](/blog1?month=04-2008)
    * Apr 24, 2008  [The gutting of economics as an anti-state force by fear of offending the powers](/blog1/2008/4/24/the-gutting-of-economics-as-an-anti-state-force-by-fear-of-o.html) Apr 24, 2008 
    * Apr 10, 2008  [The intellectual disease, and part of the inoculation](/blog1/2008/4/10/the-intellectual-disease-and-part-of-the-inoculation.html) Apr 10, 2008 
  * [ February 2008 ](/blog1?month=02-2008)
    * Feb 14, 2008  [Avoid and scurry: FactChecker's Ron Paul smear distracts from the real issues](/blog1/2008/2/14/avoid-and-scurry-factcheckers-ron-paul-smear-distracts-from.html) Feb 14, 2008 

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf) [
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A) [
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf)[
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A)[
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

