[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![Into The Ether](/static/93c67144cc9357462c3eabe61ba69e38/2a43b/ethereum-
bg3.jpg)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

## Into The Ether

By [Mihai Alisie](/blog/author/mihai-alisie/)

·

January 16, 2017

> "I felt a great disturbance in the Force, as if millions of voices suddenly
> cried out in surprise and were suddenly silenced. I feel something wonderful
> has happened." \--- Ethereum Kenobi

The Crypto Renaissance is unfolding through each new concept that manifests
into our reality. Not only is this paradigm shift happening, but we are
actively creating it as a sea of minds vibrating in unison towards positive
change.

And things are not slowing down.

We're just getting started.

We are now in the year 1 A.E. (1 Year 5 Months 18 Days After Ethereum) and
AKASHA has reached the stage of a functional **alpha**.

AKASHA is our first Ethereum & IPFS experiment designed to offer us a glimpse
of how we can create a future in which freedom of expression online and
privacy are not outsourced to corporations - a future in which human relations
are not owned by corporations.

This is why we are building a free channel of expression that works in a
**decentralized fashion**. Driven by passion and inspired by "what ifs" we
explore the applications and implications of a permanent web in the context of
social networks, freedom of expression, creative perpetuity and privacy.

Questions like "Who owns the data?", "In which jurisdiction is the data
stored?" and "Who has control over the data?" are **not answered, but rather
transcended** from the design stage.

In this new model, these questions are obsolete.

We don't have all the answers yet, but we believe that by treating this alpha
as scaffolding, enabling us to **iterate and experiment with bold ideas
rapidly** , we increase our chances of uncovering the optimal solution(s).

It won't happen overnight; it will take genius and much hard work to get it
**_right_**.

Now, even if we don't know everything from the start, we know something -
basic human rights such as **freedom of expression and privacy must be part of
the solution(s). Otherwise, they 're not good solutions.**

We believe that continuous experimentation is the key to discovering new
services and features we cannot even imagine at this point. Some could
reinvent whole industries and business models. Others will fail miserably, and
we will learn something new in the process.

It will be a marathon, not a sprint, but we expect every step of it to be
enlightening.

That being said, we see this alpha pre-release as a humble starting point on
top of which we can iterate and improve with you, the Community. In the
current form, AKASHA is only for the curious who don't mind occasional bugs
and understand that through their involvement, they can shape what this
project will become.

Since it is an alpha, it comes with all the instability associated with early
experiments - just as the first flight attempts were not necessarily safe or
comfortable.

Failures, glitches and random errors **should be expected.**

If every epic adventure begins with a grand purpose and a first step, this is
ours: We believe that we can leverage technology to create a better Web. A Web
in service of humanity.

And now, let's make our first step _Into the Ether_!

#### Instructions For Windows Pioneers:

  * Download the [.exe installer](https://github.com/AkashaProject/Alpha/releases/download/0.5.2/AKASHA-win-x64-0.5.2.exe) or the [.zip archive](https://github.com/AkashaProject/Alpha/releases/download/0.5.2/AKASHA-win-x64-0.5.2.zip) from our [official alpha GitHub repo](https://github.com/AkashaProject/Alpha/releases/tag/0.5.2)
  * Run the installer or extract the files contained in the .zip file
  * Open the AKASHA dapp and synchronize with the network
  * Create an AKASHA identity (profile)
  * Log in and enjoy AKASHA

#### Instructions For Mac Pioneers:

  * Download the [.dmg installer](https://github.com/AkashaProject/Alpha/releases/download/0.5.2/AKASHA-macosx-0.5.2.dmg) or the [.zip archive](https://github.com/AkashaProject/Alpha/releases/download/0.5.2/AKASHA-macosx-0.5.2.zip) from our [official alpha GitHub repo](https://github.com/AkashaProject/Alpha/releases/tag/0.5.2)
  * Run the installer or extract the files contained in the .zip file
  * Open the AKASHA dapp and synchronize with the network
  * Create an AKASHA identity
  * Log in and enjoy AKASHA

#### Instructions For Linux Pioneers:

  * Download the [.deb installer](https://github.com/AkashaProject/Alpha/releases/download/0.5.2/AKASHA-linux-x64-0.5.2.deb) or the [.zip archive](https://github.com/AkashaProject/Alpha/releases/download/0.5.2/AKASHA-linux-x64-0.5.2.zip) from our [official alpha GitHub repo](https://github.com/AkashaProject/Alpha/releases/tag/0.5.2)
  * Run the installer or extract the files contained in the .zip file
  * Open the AKASHA dapp and synchronize with the network
  * Create an AKASHA identity
  * Log in and enjoy AKASHA

The general rule of thumb for this release is `If something breaks, refresh
the dapp.`

And remember, occasionally, to take a moment and **enjoy it**.

This is pioneering at its best, and through your involvement, you are all
pioneers.

History is in the making and this time, we're writing it **together** \- _Into
The Ether_.

[ ![AKASHA](/static/775eee9103eafddf352acd8a853300c2/0246a/2_intro_akasha.jpg)
](/static/775eee9103eafddf352acd8a853300c2/0246a/2_intro_akasha.jpg)

* _Note that the downloading links have been updated with the latest 0.5.2 release, Continued Mendings (March 10th 2017)_

[News](/blog/category/news/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2017/01/16/into-
the-ether)

