[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/1c3db83be1db&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Fluidity](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*5pEAonqQtkWjGPLSudRP7g.png)](https://medium.com/fluidity?source=post_page
-----1c3db83be1db--------------------------------)

Published in

[Fluidity

](https://medium.com/fluidity?source=post_page-----
1c3db83be1db--------------------------------)

[![AirSwap](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*S-j0-sWqnj2pMlbQUFV4iQ.jpeg)](/@airswap?source=post_page
-----1c3db83be1db--------------------------------)

[AirSwap](/@airswap?source=post_page-----
1c3db83be1db--------------------------------)

Follow

Feb 4, 2020

·

4 min read

# Introducing AirSwap Delegates

 _Add your token, set your price. Delegates enable on-chain, non-custodial,
and trustless limit order functionality on the AirSwap network through an
intuitive interface. Add liquidity today at_[
_https://instant.airswap.io/delegates_](https://instant.airswap.io/delegates/)
_._

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*Rg7ltF_9s8xMHpTddmxraw.png)

AirSwap provides trustless peer-to-peer trading between counterparties,
without the need to give up custody, pay trading fees, or sign up for an
account. The design resembles RFQ, where automated makers provide prices via
API to everyday traders. While this functionality works seamlessly and has
allowed the network to grow, adding tokens and setting prices on the network
has been limited to those able to run automated makers.

With the introduction of AirSwap Delegates, everyday traders can configure on-
chain trading rules, removing the need to develop and operate complex maker
software. Delegates enable new powerful features through on-chain limit
orders, the ability for anyone to add new tokens to the network, and for dapps
to integrate with a new on-chain liquidity source.

# On-Chain Limit Orders for Any Token

Through an intuitive interface, Delegates allow any trader to add rules that
specify the size and price for a particular token. This functionality will
look very similar to a limit order on a centralized exchange. The liquidity is
integrated into the AirSwap network and can be accessed directly from the
[instant.airswap.io](https://instant.airswap.io) frontend, as well as any
other dapp integration.

# Add a New Token in 3 Simple Steps

Users can connect their wallet, select a token, set a price, and start
trading.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*n09NCKnGOphcx0G6fh8KSA.png)

# On-Chain Liquidity Integrations

On-chain liquidity in the ecosystem has recently seen significant growth.
Delegates enable deep integration with AirSwap liquidity, discoverable and
directly queryable by smart contract trading systems. Kyber liquidity can flow
through to AirSwap, and AirSwap Delegate liquidity can become a reserve on
Kyber. We invite ecosystem projects to [integrate](https://docs.airswap.io/)
with this new on-chain liquidity source.

# More Makers, More Tokens, More Liquidity

Delegates remove a major bottleneck to being a maker on the network.
Previously, only professional traders with the ability to write and run maker
software could provide liquidity. With Delegates, we’ve created an intuitive
interface and protocol functionality for limit orders to be stored on-chain.
We expect the removal of this bottleneck to **increase the number of makers on
the network**.

Delegates make it easy for everyday traders to add new tokens to the
network–all without giving up custody of their tokens. Previously, adding a
token would require automated maker software. With Delegates, a friendly
interface will allow anyone to add any token with a few simple clicks. We
expect the ability for anyone to add tokens to the network will **increase the
number of tokens available on the network**.

Delegates enable new ways to trade and enable more “trade loops” to complete.
For example, a manual trader can now add tokens to the network, with a
specific price, and that limit order is propagated to the AirSwap frontend so
manual takers can compare the price against other manual or automated makers.
By increasing these “trade loops”, we increase the amount of orders that are
stored and aggregated on-chain, which gives more competitive options to
takers. More trading possibilities for both makers and takers creates a
virtuous cycle, **resulting in more liquidity on the network.**

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*-PJwqmpKvuG9jM04q-4P6Q.png)

# Enabling Frictionless Trade

With Delegates, we’ve introduced a new component of the AirSwap system,
intercompatible with existing components, and extending into a new kind of
liquidity that enables everyday traders to easily add their tokens and set
their prices. Delegates are critical to growing a network that empowers the
world with frictionless trade.

Set up your Delegate at
[https://instant.airswap.io/delegates](https://instant.airswap.io/delegates/)
and let us know what you think. We’ve prioritized ease of use and are actively
collecting feedback. If you have any ideas or questions about Delegates, join
us on our Discord at <https://chat.airswap.io/>.

# About AirSwap

AirSwap enables peer-to-peer trading on the Ethereum blockchain. Built on a
decentralized protocol, traders can add or remove liquidity through a suite of
trustless products that are easy to use and free. Our mission is to empower
the world with frictionless trade.

[Blog](https://medium.com/fluidity) | [Twitter](https://twitter.com/airswap) |
[Discord](https://chat.airswap.io) | [Developers](https://docs.airswap.io) |
[Makers](https://makers.airswap.io) |
[Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/airswap) |
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/airswapio/) |
[LinkedIn](http://www.linkedin.com/company/airswap/) |
[Subscribe](https://upscri.be/b0fed8-2) |
[Support](https://support.airswap.io) | [Request a
Feature](https://airswap.canny.io) | [FAQ](https://support.airswap.io/faq) |
[Trade Now](https://instant.airswap.io)

\--

2

\--

\--

2

## [More from Fluidity](/fluidity?source=post_page-----
1c3db83be1db--------------------------------)

Rebuilding Finance for a Frictionless World

[Read more from Fluidity](/fluidity?source=post_page-----
1c3db83be1db--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Selenaml](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*iO5BnOq89JFtadQj)](/@selenaml1980?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Selenaml

](/@selenaml1980?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## iBG Finance

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*73ARKO7NzKgaNpTYDG7Pqw.png)](/@selenaml1980/ibg-
finance-186c273baf01?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Brayan Nelson
Pagatpatan](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*9O8xOfgpOYWhQgaHsQtFtA.jpeg)](/@bnelsonsep3?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Brayan Nelson Pagatpatan

](/@bnelsonsep3?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Crypto 101: Really! Cryptocurrency is now Accepted as Payment in Tourism
Transportation.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*HPdhq9CuzMTafkXM)](/coinmonks/crypto-101-really-
cryptocurrency-is-now-accepted-as-payment-in-tourism-
transportation-6c5c43deac0b?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Neil
Dillon](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*YPa_SAbQRXE5JfbW2ypxJQ.jpeg)](/@neildillon10?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Neil Dillon

](/@neildillon10?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[CryptoStars

](https://medium.com/cryptostars?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## What’s up with those NFTs? Demystifying the fintech trend that’s taking
over the press

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*GFORnhpbtKX_AFG0)](/cryptostars/whats-
up-with-those-nfts-demystifying-the-fintech-trend-that-s-taking-over-the-
press-9aa0e340eb15?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![League of
Kingdoms](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*mlPyLqz0nGkEXZZ_Yn2WxA.png)](/@join-
lok?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

[League of Kingdoms

](/@join-lok?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

in

[LOK Official Blog

](https://medium.com/league-of-kingdoms-eng?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

## THE LANDLORDS- Vol. 002

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*w8Cdrnffem9bOAc596l1xg.png)](/league-
of-kingdoms-eng/the-landlords-vol-002-191f7ad9d6f6?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[[![thecryptocoinreport.com](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*2LSpRAiPbnzlwU7WksXXtQ.jpeg)](/@thecryptocoinreport?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[thecryptocoinreport.com

](/@thecryptocoinreport?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Crypto Flipsider News — ConsenSys Partners with Mastercard, Adidas’ First
NFT, Melania and Solana…

![Crypto Flipsider News – ConsenSys Partners with Mastercard, Adidas’ First
NFT, Melania and Solana Labs NFT, 83% of Millennial Millionaires Own Crypto,
Russia’s Crypto Ban, Binance to
UAE](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*FBsUuc7tZ459fa_H.jpg)](/@thecryptocoinreport/crypto-
flipsider-news-consensys-partners-with-mastercard-adidas-first-nft-melania-
and-solana-f0fd4be4f15b?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Stuart
Farmer](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*AejeHYdxVuhHVww5o_baEQ.jpeg)](/@stuartrfarmer?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Stuart Farmer

](/@stuartrfarmer?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[Lamden

](https://medium.com/lamden?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Lombardy: A Solution to the MakerDAO Problem

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*OHZePEYYPb43zj65RtyHHw.jpeg)](/lamden/lombardy-
a-solution-to-the-makerdao-problem-b32544d13735?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[[![ECOS
M](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*zwUsywPpnwEUMY4k6Q5bvg.png)](/@ecosmining?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[ECOS M

](/@ecosmining?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Did you know these facts about cryptocurrencies?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*nwaGciIECMnXk_AHoJ0y-g.jpeg)](/@ecosmining/did-
you-know-these-facts-about-cryptocurrencies-
cf75de1674ed?source=post_internal_links---------6----------------------------)

[[![Peter
Smith](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@amazon24steps?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Peter Smith

](/@amazon24steps?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Next Generation Currency (Cryptocurrency) TRON

](/@amazon24steps/next-generation-currency-cryptocurrency-
tron-2a327da73191?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----1c3db83be1db--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
1c3db83be1db--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
1c3db83be1db--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
1c3db83be1db--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
1c3db83be1db--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----1c3db83be1db--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----1c3db83be1db--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Ffluidity%2Fintroducing-
airswap-delegates-1c3db83be1db&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![AirSwap](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*S-j0-sWqnj2pMlbQUFV4iQ.jpeg)](/@airswap)

[

## AirSwap

](/@airswap)

2.8K Followers

AirSwap is a developer community focused on decentralized trading systems.

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F198e2de34d43&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Ffluidity%2Fintroducing-
airswap-
delegates-1c3db83be1db&newsletterV3=b501917dd00d&newsletterV3Id=198e2de34d43&user=AirSwap&userId=b501917dd00d&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Exponent](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Ns_gzxn6KXTygEsCZK5gwg.png)](/@exponent-
cx?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
0979fba5_4c43_4b15_9a06_bc73b510364a-------)

[Exponent

](/@exponent-cx?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
0979fba5_4c43_4b15_9a06_bc73b510364a-------)

## What is Impermanent Loss?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*CcWaUosWfi8Jv7-pr16C-w.jpeg)](/@exponent-
cx/what-is-impermanent-loss-b12f89c4ec4e?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------0979fba5_4c43_4b15_9a06_bc73b510364a-------)

[[![Blockpour](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*U4_54LAJHJv3K3hovwX4hA.jpeg)](/@blockpour?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------0979fba5_4c43_4b15_9a06_bc73b510364a-------)

[Blockpour

](/@blockpour?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
0979fba5_4c43_4b15_9a06_bc73b510364a-------)

## All about AMMs — Automated Market Makers

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*O5q2k7tlmz4OwoKOYuv2qw.jpeg)](/@blockpour/all-
about-amms-automated-market-makers-6a70cac2a534?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------0979fba5_4c43_4b15_9a06_bc73b510364a-------)

[[![Denis Devcic](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*fwQfIaeaxjWN-
EB1ODMI7Q.png)](/@denisdevcic?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------0979fba5_4c43_4b15_9a06_bc73b510364a-------)

[Denis Devcic

](/@denisdevcic?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
0979fba5_4c43_4b15_9a06_bc73b510364a-------)

in

[Idle DAO

](https://medium.com/idle-finance?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------0979fba5_4c43_4b15_9a06_bc73b510364a-------)

## How Composability in DeFi Works (& Example with Idle’s Frax Senior Tranches
& APWine)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*D02cS4_Y9aFmRGZYjmC7Eg.png)](/idle-
finance/how-composability-in-defi-works-example-with-idles-frax-senior-
tranches-apwine-fbdf25dcbdc0?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------0979fba5_4c43_4b15_9a06_bc73b510364a-------)

[[![Hisham Pangcoga
Macabanding](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*FkZV8aJLYYUyq2Nff9_onA.png)](/@shamboy?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------0979fba5_4c43_4b15_9a06_bc73b510364a-------)

[Hisham Pangcoga Macabanding

](/@shamboy?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
0979fba5_4c43_4b15_9a06_bc73b510364a-------)

## Metrics to Use to Value Layer 1 Blockchains (and DeFi Protocols) for
Beginners

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*SOwXZY7gJIUxL04shC4i_A.jpeg)](/@shamboy/metrics-
to-use-to-value-layer-1-blockchains-and-defi-protocols-for-
newbies-9afdc711a76a?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
0979fba5_4c43_4b15_9a06_bc73b510364a-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

