[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Introducing the teams in the latest virtual cohort from our Web 3
accelerator programme Base Camp

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Introducing the teams in the latest virtual cohort from our Web 3 accelerator
programme Base Camp

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/scott-collen-
mugshot-1-900x900-sharpened-150x150.jpg)

June 2020

Posted by

Scott Collen

Base Camp Accelerator Programme Lead

Scott’s responsibilities include working with the investment team on
selection, counselling founders to help them achieve their goals, and
fundraising....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=8331)

Established in 2013, we were Europe’s first venture firm dedicated to
blockchain technology. As we kick off with our third Base Camp accelerator
programme, we can see the first signs of a new digital infrastructure coming
to life as outlined in our thesis. And at the heart of it all continues to be
the open data economy, as we engage with companies who challenge how data is
generated, collected, analysed and exchanged..

We launched the Base Camp accelerator program in 2019 as an attempt to support
the nascent Web 3 industry even more closely. Since then we have worked with
11 of the most exciting early stage Web 3 projects from around the world and
on boarded another 10 last week. We have built a goal-oriented team bringing a
diverse range of skills and extensive breadth of experience and we don’t
hesitate to go out of our way to ensure success of the companies we work with.

We understand that every project needs a different blend of services at
different times depending on the stage of development and internal capacities
and competencies. We recognise that founders are individuals and each team is
unique - therefore we provide them with a framework to succeed that tailors
content, mentorship and our approach to them to take their company from zero
to one.

After successfully transitioning Base Camp 2 from a fully residential to a
fully virtual programme in a matter of weeks triggered by COVID-19, we were
inspired to launch this summer’s cohort as fully virtual and were amazed by
the response: receiving a record 270 applications from all over the world with
teams and products of such high standard that choosing 10 was extremely
difficult. And because of the virtual nature, we increased our cohort limit
from 8 to 10 - each coming from a different part of the world. We welcomed
teams from Canada, Brazil, Australia, Finland to Russia and The Philippines.

We couldn’t be more excited about the 10 startups we selected to join our
summer cohort. This includes projects at a wide range of the stack from node
infrastructure and UX to privacy tech to gaming to marketplaces and
decentralized finance. Our thesis for Base Camp is to be pragmatic and work
with teams that are accelerating the vision of Web 3 either by developing
tooling or operating in the ‘boring’ industries that are big but fragmented.

Make sure to follow the progress of our teams in the third Base Camp on
Twitter, LinkedIn and through our
[newsletter.](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/)

Posted by Scott Collen - June 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/scott-collen-
mugshot-1-900x900-sharpened-150x150.jpg)

June 2020

Posted by

Scott Collen

Base Camp Accelerator Programme Lead

Scott’s responsibilities include working with the investment team on
selection, counselling founders to help them achieve their goals, and
fundraising....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=8331)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

## Base Camp 3 - Summer Cohort 2020

![Introducing the teams in the latest virtual cohort from our Web 3
accelerator programme Base Camp Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Base-
Camp-3-Teams.jpeg)



![Introducing the teams in the latest virtual cohort from our Web 3
accelerator programme Base Camp Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/06/5d358edd3c92150023905322_optimized.png)

### Cryptio - Professional Bookkeeping System for Digital Assets

[https://cryptio.co/](https://cryptio.co/)

#### **Why this team rocks!**

Founded by Antoine, former VC in B2B SaaS companies, cryptio is built by a
team of very talented engineers from the best engineering schools in France.
Gabriel, the CTO, has been building crypto projects for years and led the
software cluster at Epitech R&D Lab. With a lean execution philosophy, they
have built a product way more advanced than anything on the market and that is
now used by leading companies in the space. They are backed and advised by
Griffin Anderson, former CEO of Balanc3, a Consensys-backed company, pioneer
in digital assets accounting.

_Founder_

_Antoine Scalia - CEO _

#### **Problem they are solving**

Accounting systems have been here for decades and are backed by multi billion
dollars companies (SAP, Xero, Oracle, Quickbooks). These systems and the
accounting framework they are built upon are here to stay.

On the other side, digital assets are a new emerging asset class and are very
likely to have a significant impact on businesses. However, the link between
this new transactional space and traditional accounting systems does not
exist. Which creates immediate short terms problems for companies willing to
adopt this technology regarding compliance, accounting or tax.

#### **Solution**

**A professional bookkeeping software that actively monitors digital asset
activity and translates it into accounting and audit ready reports.**

Cryptio is building a bridge between traditional accounting systems and
digital assets data so that today's crypto businesses can keep building the
foundations of Web3 and new businesses can adopt this technology without
having to face regulatory issues.

Their clients include Consensys, Celo and Ocean Protocol.





### ![Introducing the teams in the latest virtual cohort from our Web 3
accelerator programme Base Camp Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/06/Screenshot-2020-06-29-at-15.34.00.png)

### Gantree - Empowering any organisation to own and cultivate a piece of the
global p2p economy

[https://gantree.io/](https://gantree.io/)

#### **Why this team rocks!**

Gantree is currently a team of 4 brilliant humans, all coming across from Flex
Dapps where they have worked on globally renowned Web3 projects and ventures.
The Gantree team have accrued incredibly valuable specific knowledge which
they apply directly by building brilliant products.

_Founders_

_Alexander Ramsey - CEO _

_Tom Nash - CTO _

#### **Problem they are solving**

Running node infrastructure is a complicated craft. You can either hire
dedicated personnel to manage your nodes, or pay for an expensive turnkey
solution.

Unfortunately, there is an under supply of software developers with the
subject matter expertise to manage nodes, and turnkey solutions don’t offer
the control or value necessary for most Web3 businesses.

Node infrastructure operation can be a profitable venture that is easy to
learn and difficult to master analogous to running an ecommerce store.
Unfortunately, nobody is building tools that empower people to run their own
nodes.

#### **The Solution**

**Building an all-in-one infrastructure toolkit for operating blockchain
nodes.**

Gantree puts powerful tools in the hands of node operators which allow them to
more easily spin up, manage and tear down nodes.

They provide analytics and telemetry infrastructure for you to measure and
understand your nodes right out of the box. Gantree also empowers you to be
more secure, reliable and act out the best strategy with configurable alerting
and monitoring tools.

Inspired by the Gantry Crane which is capable of lifting some of the heaviest
loads in the world. Ship-to-shore Gantrys help pioneering companies minimise
time in port and ship faster.



![Introducing the teams in the latest virtual cohort from our Web 3
accelerator programme Base Camp Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/heymate-
logo.png)

### heymate - A peer-to-peer marketplace for the global gig economy directly
within social media, such as the messenger Telegram

[https://heymate.works/](https://heymate.works/)

**Why this team rocks!**

Philipp Toth was born in a Brazilian favela in São Paulo, adopted by German
parents and grew up in Europe. In addition to his endless amounts of passion
and high energy, Phillip brings with him a wealth of experience from his
twelve years working in strategy consulting and private equity at firms that
include A.T.Kearney, Merrill Lynch and The Blackstone Group. With the team
that Phillipp is building and by leveraging his extensive network, heymate are
well poised to give micro-entrepreneurs in his former home country and the
rest of the world a tool to enhance their livelihoods.

_Founder_

_Phillip Toth - CEO_

#### **Problem**

More than one billion freelancers & side hustlers are already working in the
so-called gig economy, doing on-demand gigs such as providing short-term
labor, renting-out equipment or selling new or used items.

In addition, the current COVID-19 pandemic measures are accelerating the
growth of the gig economy, with millions of “homepreneurs” joining the gig
economy daily, becoming the fastest growing labor market.

But the problem is, how do we find, book, contract, pay and rate the next gig
in our surrounding?

#### **Solution**

**A next generation peer-to-peer marketplace, connecting gig producers & gig
consumers on social media such as the messenger app Telegram**

heymate enables you to find, book, contract, pay and rate your next gig
directly at your fingertips.

The heymate frontend is designed for the mass markets - simple & trustful,
such as the good old handshake.

The heymate backend deploys cutting-edge distributed ledger/ blockchain
technology (DLT), following the decentralized finance (DeFi) principals.



![Introducing the teams in the latest virtual cohort from our Web 3
accelerator programme Base Camp Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/06/Screenshot-2020-06-29-at-15.39.27-e1593441625887.png)

**keyTango - Unlocking DeFi through integration and aggregation**

[https://www.keytango.io/](https://www.keytango.io/)

**Why this team rocks!**

The keyTango team is comprised of seasoned entrepreneurs and experts in the
crypto space. Dan Danay, their CEO, is a graduate of the Israeli Naval
Academy. He obtained his MBA with a focus in Entrepreneurship and Innovation
from MIT Sloan. He is also an alumnus of Ycombinator, where he participated as
a startup mentor in the fellowship program and group moderator in the startup
school. Guy Zyskind, is keyTango’s Chief Scientist. Guy obtained his M.S. from
the MIT Media Lab where he taught the first engineering class about bitcoin,
blockchain and cryptocurrencies.

_Founders_

_Dan Danay - CEO_

_Guy Zyskind - Chief Scientist_

#### **Problem they are solving**

95% of all crypto funds are idle. DeFi is overwhelming and CeFi is siloed.

#### **The Solution**

keyTango integrates, aggregates and simplifies DeFi and CeFi products to make
the most out of your crypto.

_Please note, more details on the keyTango project to be released soon_



![Introducing the teams in the latest virtual cohort from our Web 3
accelerator programme Base Camp Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/06/Screenshot-2020-06-29-at-15.48.37.png)

### Linkdrop - Taking crypto mainstream by making customer acquisition
effective and crypto products easy to start with

[https://linkdrop.io/](https://linkdrop.io/)

#### **Why this team rocks**!

Linkdrop are a highly skilled team that have already built several startups.
They bring with them some huge achievements including helping to scale an
e-commerce marketplace to over $180M in monthly revenue, and growing an online
media company to 3.5M monthly readers. They have been building in the
Blockchain ecosystem for more than 3 years and are aiming to use all their
experience and skills to help grow the blockchain ecosystem to 1Billion users.

_Founders_

_Artiom Ignatyev - CEO _

_Mikhail Dobrokhvalov - CTO_

#### **Problem they are solving**

Blockchain is coming to traditional companies with mainstream users. However,
right now crypto onboarding is very complicated and the customer journey is
broken in crypto.

There is a 95–97% drop-off rate for new blockchain users. Just to start using
crypto products companies need to ask new users to install and set up a wallet
and get network tokens to pay fees before providing any value. This doesn’t
work well with mainstream users.

#### **The Solution**

**Linkdrop allows companies to run promotional campaigns with digital rewards
encoded into links.**

Their novel approach is allowing companies to send digital rewards to anyone
via a link, SMS, email, etc. Allowing to claim digital assets before having a
wallet fixes the broken crypto customer journey and motivates mainstream users
to finish complicated crypto onboarding.



![Introducing the teams in the latest virtual cohort from our Web 3
accelerator programme Base Camp Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Minaz-
Logo.png)

### Minaz - Disrupting the organic food industry by creating traceability
application in the organic food value chain

[https://minazb2b.com/](https://minazb2b.com/)

#### **Why this team rocks!**

Team MINAZ, based between Hamburg, Paris and New York are rocketing up the
organic food industry segment by developing a food monitoring and traceability
application. The team includes two business development experts with
significant experience in the food industry and two technical experts well
versed in blockchain and application development. MINAZ are also supported by
mentors in the form of senior managers in the ORACLE Blockchain team. With
excellent team spirit and strong support from their mentors, the MINAZ team
have the right ingredients to break boundaries and revolutionise the way
disruptive technologies are engaging with the real business world’s supply
chain needs.

_Founders_

_Mina Kordi - CEO_

_Bertrand Juglas - CTO _

_Jako Kordi - COO_

#### **Problem**

The effects of COVID-19 on international trades due to movement restrictions,
transferring of products between countries will take longer as transportation
is highly dependent on office work, and there are mountains of paperwork and
duplicative processes in borders. We see two main issues that need to be
addressed:

  * Disconnected supply chain actors - Complex, global supply chains, involve many independent actors who may not trust each other. This can greatly limit the level of collaboration
  * Lack of Transparency and auditability - As the risks of trading with non-authorized suppliers is product recalling that can cause significant legal costs in addition to brand damage and lost sales for products.

#### **Solution**

**An easy-to-use graphical interface to map the supply chain and automatically
set up the companies and associated nodes, all in a couple of clicks.**

MINAZ built up a traceability application which is a food inspection data
monitoring and tracking tool that use of permitted blockchain systems to
tackle the integrity in the supply chain interoperability challenge. It helps
to expedite organic chain management trials by facilitating data storage and
sharing between partners while ensuring the trustworthiness of production
trial data collection and reporting.

Also, the application checks the authority of the released certificate in each
step of developing the supply chain and displays data for analysis, recall
management, volume analysis, and more.



![Introducing the teams in the latest virtual cohort from our Web 3
accelerator programme Base Camp Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/06/Screenshot-2020-06-29-at-15.52.31.png)

### OPGames - Competitive game tournament made easy

[https://outplay.games/](https://outplay.games/)

#### **Why this team rocks!**

Outplay Games are a team of 5 who have the drive, vision, talent and
resilience to commit to solutions that can pierce into a breakthrough that
will change how game monetization works in the future. Bringing with them over
30 years of combined experience within the gaming industry, the team perfectly
balances the commercial know-how of how to build profitability within games
with the technical expertise needed to enable developers in the space where
gaming and blockchain intersect.

_Founders_

_Chase Freo - CEO_

_Paul Gadi - CTO_

_Gabby Dizon - COO _

#### **Problem they are solving**

The casual and hyper casual games market is very saturated, with revenue
sources heavily reliant on video ads alone without any alternatives.

As Daily Active Users dictate how much a game will earn via ads, it requires
extreme virality or paid user acquisition which is typically higher than the
average user LTV in these game genres. To add to this, ad monetization is
often intrusive with bad user experience leading to high player attrition.

Furthermore, the majority of casual and hyper casual games are not able to
find publishers to fund their marketing growth.

#### **The Solution**

**A set of tools that allows game developers to turn their single player games
into a competitive multiplayer tournament**

OP Games is a solution that enables both the developer and player to sanction
tournaments with entry fees forming a prize pool for winning players to split.

Developers can then collect a percentage of tournament entry fees to improve
the game's monetization and retention structure.

Additionally, competitive tournaments offer alternative streams of revenue for
game developers that aren’t as disruptive to the player experience as video
ads tend to be.



![Introducing the teams in the latest virtual cohort from our Web 3
accelerator programme Base Camp Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/06/Screenshot-2020-06-29-at-15.54.05.png)

### rexs.io - A blockchain-based data notarization service that creates a
shield of trust for any data

[https://rexs.io/](https://rexs.io/)

#### **Why this team rocks!**

Rexs.io have the right skill set, drive and vision to aim for the stars. One
of their core team members has a Ph.D. from Tokyo University whilst another
spent over 12 years making his way to the top of the IT corporate ladder in
Germany, UK, Switzerland, and UAE. The team combines many years of invaluable
commercial experience with deep technical expertise. They built their pilot in
less than 24 hours of coding, imagine, what they could do with the right time
and capital.

_Founders_

_Krzysztof Radecki - CEO _

_Przemek Szleter - COO_

#### **Problem they are solving**

There is a fundamental issue with data nowadays - people do not trust it.
Driven by the recent deep fakes and fake news scandals, private and corporate
users alike became distrustful of information they consume.

Blockchain technology is perfect for facilitating trustless interactions but
it was not designed to handle high velocity and high volume data traffic. It
is also fairly complex and comes with a steep learning curve and a complex
toolset that discourage its mass adoption.

Beyond that, storing data on blockchain is inefficient, very expensive and for
the majority of corporate users unacceptable in the light of recently
introduced EU and US data privacy laws.

#### **The Solution**

**A platform that abstracts and hides blockchain’s complexities without
compromising on security.**

Rexs.io decouples data storage and data trust layers thus guaranteeing that
sensitive data never leaves our clients infrastructure but its authenticity
can be validated at any time by all parties involved.

Rexs.io is storage and blockchain agnostic, easily integrates into existing
data streams and seamlessly creates a trust layer for any kind of data using
distributed ledger technology.



![Introducing the teams in the latest virtual cohort from our Web 3
accelerator programme Base Camp Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/06/Screenshot-2020-06-29-at-15.58.07.png)

### SwashApp - The World’s First Digital Data Union

[https://swashapp.io/](https://swashapp.io/#/)

#### **Why this team rocks!**

Swash are a team of 4 who have the confidence, ambition, and the tools to
achieve their mission of building the world’s first digital data union. They
have developed a new model and have already proven it to be working. Bringing
together their combined experiences in building blockchain startups, over 10
years of software security specialisation and technical expertise, the Swash
team are focused on enabling people to benefit from their data, whilst
prioritising security of it.

_Founders_

_Ebrahim Khalilzadeh - Security Architect_

_Reza Naeeni - Business Developer_

_Masoud Sarabadani - Engineer_

_Mehrdad Abdi - Engineer_

#### **Problem they are solving**

Web users today cannot monetize the value of their online data. Their data is
controlled and sold by tech giants and their attention is harvested by
advertisers while users earn nothing in return.

Users' data is sold without user knowledge or real consent causing power
asymmetry and inequality in the data economy.

Data buyers do not have access to diverse cross-platform data. They face
negative business reputation and declining profitability as a result of
increasing legal and social demands for respecting individual data ownership
rights.

#### **The Solution**

**Building a better web by enabling users to monetize their data.**

Swash is a browser extension that lets users monitor and monetize their
browsing data.

Swash unlocks and democratizes new streams of data economy for web users while
disrupting the current legacy models for data brokering and online advertising
services.

Swash is The World's First Digital Data Union — an ad hoc collective of users
pooling their data in order to increase its value and then selling
subscriptions to that data via a decentralized marketplace.



![Introducing the teams in the latest virtual cohort from our Web 3
accelerator programme Base Camp Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/06/Screenshot-2020-06-29-at-15.59.40.png)

### Tapmydata - We build tools for data discovery and secure sharing, with
citizens in control

[https://tapmydata.com/](https://tapmydata.com/)

#### **Why this team rocks!**

Covering PrivTech, mobile web, blockchain and crypto commerce, the Tapmydata
team brings together the skills to take new ideas from idea to delivery,
through prototyping and MVP, on an agile basis.

They have the right profile, contacts and credibility to own the dialogue
around data rights and inspire consumers to take control of their data, learn
and earn from it, all in a very accessible way - think Which? for the 21st
century!

Tapmydata is currently a core team of 4 members, plus trusted advisors who
they can rely on for input and assistance as needed.

_Founders_

_Gilbert Hill CEO_

_Tom Holder CTO_

#### **Problem they are solving**

For GDPR to fulfil its potential, people need to be able to take back control
of their data, store and transfer on to those who can make use of it,
securely, easily and transparently.

Right now, increasing numbers of people are filling in website forms, sending
scans of sensitive documents in the post or via email, and wondering why
companies know so much about them.

Companies are either doing nothing at all to manage data rights or using
methods and tools which don’t scale, and aren’t secure. Many are wondering
how, where and why they gathered so much data about people and worrying this
is now a risk.

#### ******The Solution**

**Providing a means to discover and repatriate your personal info, store and
share it securely with another person or organisation we remove friction for
all parties to move beyond compliance, towards data dialogue and exchange.**

Tapmydata have built a dedicated, secure channel to do this, with an app for
people to exercise their rights, a data wallet and web portal for businesses
to respond, with blockchain as the ledger.

Businesses can move data dialogue away from compliance teams and back into the
customer and marketing departments, and individuals can own their data record,
group together and start to exercise real agency.



## Join our growing ecosystem

Outlier Ventures is all about building an ecosystem that collectively strives
to drive innovation and progress within the world of Web 3. We’re always
looking for amazing mentors, investors and Web 3 enthusiasts to join us on
this journey. Please email
[basecamp@outlierventures.io](mailto:basecamp@outlierventures.io) if you’d
like to learn more about how you can get involved.

If you’re a startup interested in joining a future Base Camp programme, please
register your interest
[here.](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd2APcsAAiJyWl43vivgE2brubcheYEwOWofVw_6AV032vX-A/viewform)



Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

