[](https://medium.com/)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/ed48621754ad&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](https://medium.com/)

[Home](https://medium.com/)

[Notifications](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Enigma](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*aIQTqQDM97_LBgHTkHGqcA.png)](https://blog.enigma.co/?source=post_page
-----ed48621754ad--------------------------------)

Published in

[Enigma

](https://blog.enigma.co/?source=post_page-----
ed48621754ad--------------------------------)

[![Enigma
Project](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/2*2SRmuGkTHWle_KyV3jfGhQ.png)](https://medium.com/@EnigmaMPC?source=post_page
-----ed48621754ad--------------------------------)

[Enigma Project](https://medium.com/@EnigmaMPC?source=post_page-----
ed48621754ad--------------------------------)

[Follow](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fsubscribe%2Fuser%2F4f5f09fa22fb&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fintroducing-
secret-network-
ed48621754ad&user=Enigma+Project&userId=4f5f09fa22fb&source=post_page-4f5f09fa22fb
----ed48621754ad---------------------follow_byline-----------)

May 27, 2020

¬∑

7 min read

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fbookmark%2Fp%2Fed48621754ad&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fintroducing-
secret-network-
ed48621754ad&source=--------------------------bookmark_header-----------)

[

Save

](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fbookmark%2Fp%2Fed48621754ad&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fintroducing-
secret-network-
ed48621754ad&source=--------------------------bookmark_header-----------)

# Introducing Secret Network

## Our mainnet blockchain is now known as Secret Network, thanks to a recent
unanimous on-chain proposal. Learn more about Secret Network and how you can
join the ecosystem!

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*1kydiFy8MJU-Fp16vT_zZw.png)

Greetings to the community!

Today we share news of a major development in our ecosystem ‚Äî **the
introduction of**[ **Secret Network.**](http://scrt.network)

The Enigma team and over 20 independent validators (known as _secret nodes)_
have been supporting the mainnet blockchain [since its launch in
February](/the-enigma-mainnet-has-launched-3bd0d40fe80d). This mainnet is a
proof-of-stake-based blockchain based on [Cosmos SDK /
Tendermint](https://cosmos.network/) and secured by a new native coin, Secret
(SCRT).

Recently, a proposal was made utilizing on-chain governance to establish a
clear brand for the network that would both reflect the name of the chain‚Äôs
native coin as well as the network‚Äôs decentralized governance and broad
community support.

[

## Secret Network Mainnet Explorer: Proposal 7

secretscan.io

](https://secretscan.io/governance/proposal/7)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*QZC-JRmIOX0rgSA-E9iAJg.png)

The full text of the on-chain branding proposal. Image from
[secretscan.io](http://www.secretscan.io)

 **This proposal passed with unanimous approval on May 17th, 2020.**

So what does this mean for both the mainnet blockchain and Enigma the
development company? For the mainnet, only the name is changing! The vision
for the network remains the same as ever: **a blockchain-based protocol that
enables secure computations over encrypted data, bringing data privacy to
public blockchains.** This protocol will be known going forward as Secret
Network ‚Äî protecting data (and secrets) for users of decentralized
applications (Secret Apps).

Meanwhile, Enigma the software company is still Enigma! Our focus remains on
building and supporting groundbreaking privacy-focused technologies and
networks. We are a key contributor to Secret Network and are continuing to
build out functionality for the network. See our [April Development
Update](/enigma-development-update-april-2020-f4938a1bee11) for some recent
progress, including our achievement of [milestone 2 out of
3](https://forum.enigma.co/t/milestone-2-of-3-cosmwasm-in-sgx-without-
encryption/1548) on the path to enabling secret contracts on Secret Network!
You can also visit our [forum](http://forum.scrt.network) to read through
weekly community updates and other development progress (such as [this update
on the encryption protocol](https://forum.enigma.co/t/an-update-on-the-
encryption-protocol/1641)).

The Enigma team is supportive of this branding change for the network and is
proud to continue working alongside the Secret Network community as well as
the [validators](https://explorer.cashmaney.com/validators) currently
supporting the Secret Network itself.

Since this rebranding proposal passed, Enigma and the community have taken the
opportunity to further explore the Secret Network branding. Read on to see
what‚Äôs changing, what‚Äôs next, and how you can get involved!

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*Zdz7q99GiG9w0eFsx0OoYA.png)

# Secret Network

The mainnet blockchain that is maintained by the Enigma team and other
participants from the ecosystem is now known as **Secret Network.** The
ecosystem and community are identified as the Secret Network ecosystem and
community. This branding naturally extends the existing concepts of ‚Äú[secret
contracts](/defining-secret-contracts-f40ddee67ef2)‚Äù and ‚Äúsecret nodes‚Äù that
have already been long established in the ecosystem.

Secret Network now has its own community-maintained website:
[**https://scrt.network**](https://scrt.network)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*blIzu6t_wJZ5kOTZxRQ0pA.png)

A quick look at the new [scrt.network](https://scrt.network) webpage.

In addition, the following properties have been established:

## Secret Network Official Blog

[ **https://blog.scrt.network**](https://blog.scrt.network) **** ‚Äî _created
with_[ _Ghost_](https://ghost.org/)

## Secret Network Official Chat

[ **https://chat.scrt.network**](https://chat.scrt.network) **** ‚Äî _core
community real-time_[ _Rocket.chat_](https://rocket.chat/)

## Secret Network Official Forum

[ **https://forum.scrt.network**](http://forum.scrt.network) ****_‚Äî the
existing forum has migrated!_

## Secret Network Documentation

[ **https://build.scrt.network/**](http://docs.scrt.network) _‚Äî hosted on
GitHub, for devs and validators_

## Secret Network Official Twitter

[ **https://twitter.com/SecretNetwork**](https://twitter.com/secretnetwork)

##  **Secret Network Telegram Announcements**

[ **https://t.me/SCRTnetwork**](https://t.me/SCRTnetwork)

More community-maintained channels and resources will be established over the
coming weeks and months as the Secret Network community grows. There will be
plenty of opportunities to contribute! There are also a few announcements
upcoming as well that will help shed some light on the path forward‚Ä¶ For now,
please join the above communities to stay up to date on all [Secret
Network](http://scrt.network) progress ‚Äî from both the
[Enigma](http://enigma.co) development team and all other community
contributors.

# Secret (SCRT)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*x2rYiHWkVESRc546NACmmQ.png)

ùïä is for Secret.

The native coin of Secret Network, Secret (SCRT) is denoted by this symbol, ùïä,
enclosed inside a circle.

The Secret ùïä evokes a flowing network and the duality of secrets: **privacy**
and **transparency**.

The ends of the ùïä are open, allowing data to freely flow in and out.

The interior of the ùïä is private, an enclave that encloses the activity of the
network itself.

The overall shape of the S is reminiscent of a yin-yang, again reflecting the
many dualities of a privacy-preserving public network ‚Äî a highly complex
**technology** that exists to protect deeply **human** values.

SCRT has been used for staking and governance since the inception of the
network in February, with multiple proposals passing successfully. Two active
community-maintained block explorers are below, with more in development!

[

## Secret Network Block Explorer ‚Äî Cashmaney

### Edit description

explorer.cashmaney.com

](https://explorer.cashmaney.com/)

[

## Secret Network Mainnet Explorer ‚Äî ChainofSecrets

### Edit description

secretscan.io

](https://secretscan.io/)

For those interested in Secret wallets, there is already wallet support for
SCRT on [Ledger S (and
X)](https://github.com/enigmampc/SecretNetwork/blob/master/docs/ledger-
nano-s.md) as well as from [Math Wallet](http://blog.mathwallet.org/?p=1327).
Stay tuned as additional support is developed ‚Äî and if you‚Äôre interested in
helping build out wallet support for the ecosystem, [post on the Secret
Network forum](http://forum.scrt.network)!

# Incentivized Testnet and the Secret Games

As development work for Secret Network continues at its fastest pace, we are
drawing ever closer to introducing _secret contract_ functionality to the
network. After this point, **validators on Secret Network will be known as
Secret Nodes, where the data being processed will be kept encrypted and secret
even from the node itself.**

As mentioned previously, we are intending to conduct an **_incentivized
testnet_ **for Secret Network where validators can help test this new
functionality and be rewarded for their efforts. This first iteration of
secret contracts utilizes Trusted Execution Environments (TEEs) to keep data
private and secure. This means that for the testnet, validators will need to
run an SGX-enabled computer or utilize an SGX-enabled cloud operator. For a
detailed list of SGX enabled hardware and cloud options, please visit [this
link](https://github.com/ayeks/SGX-hardware).

There will be many more details shared shortly about the incentivized testnet,
but for now we are happy to share with you this [brief interest
form](https://bit.ly/secrettestnet) (which was also circulated previously).
There‚Äôs a couple questions about your experience with operating nodes or
validators for other projects. Please fill this form out, and someone will be
in contact with you directly.

‚Üí [**https://bit.ly/secrettestnet**](https://bit.ly/secrettestnet) ‚Üê

 _But that‚Äôs not all!_ Even if you‚Äôre not interested in operating nodes on
Secret Network, there will also be opportunities for developers, artists,
writers, and other community members as part of a broader initiative that
we‚Äôre calling the **Secret Games.** Stay tuned to the Secret Network channels
for more information. The Games may have already started‚Ä¶

# What should I do now?

We‚Äôd love to have you working alongside us as we expand the Secret Network and
its community! Privacy has never been more essential to the blockchain space
or to our world at large. Together we can build new types of groundbreaking
applications and unlock substantial value while protecting users and their
data.

 **Validators:** fill out the [testnet interest
form](https://bit.ly/secrettestnet)! But also remember that the Secret Network
mainnet has been active since February 2020. [You can get started running your
own node today](https://build.scrt.network/validators-and-full-nodes/secret-
nodes.html) (with no SGX required). Check out the documentation
[here](https://build.scrt.network), or come talk with community support on the
[Rocket.Chat](http://chat.scrt.network) or [forum](http://forum.scrt.network).

 **Developers:** come check out the [Secret Network
documentation](https://build.scrt.network) and give us your feedback. Go
through our latest [developer
walkthrough](https://github.com/enigmampc/enigma-blockchain-contracts-guide).
Ask all your questions about the Secret Network project and protocol on the
[developers forum.](/forum.scrt.network) Share your ideas on killer privacy-
first applications. Stay tuned for news about grants and funding that could be
available to help you make your ideas into reality!

 **Community:** join all the channels listed above (especially the
[Rocket.Chat](http://chat.scrt.network) and the
[forum](http://forum.scrt.network)) and get excited for the Secret Games!
_Artists and game designers in particular:_ definitely join the
[Rocket.Chat](http://chat.scrt.network) today and connect with us to learn how
you can get involved in the early stages of the Secret Games! _Writers:_ the
same! There will be a lot of opportunities to work with us to produce
educational materials around Secret Network, privacy, and more. Join us early
and be rewarded :)

There will be more updates soon around Secret Games, technical progress, and
other important community news. Please continue to follow all the new Secret
Network channels to make sure you don‚Äôt miss anything exciting‚Ä¶

Onwards and upwards!

‚Äî _The Enigma team and Secret Network community_

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*9AmdIV4mTZIW-SnS_1GwWg.png)

Thanks toGuy Zyskind

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fvote%2Fenigmampc%2Fed48621754ad&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fintroducing-
secret-network-
ed48621754ad&user=Enigma+Project&userId=4f5f09fa22fb&source=-----ed48621754ad
---------------------clap_footer-----------)

\--

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fvote%2Fenigmampc%2Fed48621754ad&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fintroducing-
secret-network-
ed48621754ad&user=Enigma+Project&userId=4f5f09fa22fb&source=-----ed48621754ad
---------------------clap_footer-----------)

\--

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fvote%2Fenigmampc%2Fed48621754ad&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fintroducing-
secret-network-
ed48621754ad&user=Enigma+Project&userId=4f5f09fa22fb&source=-----ed48621754ad
---------------------clap_footer-----------)

\--

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fbookmark%2Fp%2Fed48621754ad&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fintroducing-
secret-network-
ed48621754ad&source=--------------------------bookmark_footer-----------)

## [More from Enigma](https://blog.enigma.co/?source=post_page-----
ed48621754ad--------------------------------)

[Follow](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fsubscribe%2Fcollection%2Fenigmampc%2Fed48621754ad&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fintroducing-
secret-network-
ed48621754ad&collection=Enigma&collectionId=6cb5d792f282&source=post_page-----
ed48621754ad---------------------follow_footer-----------)

Official Blog of Enigma - Securing the Decentralized Web.

[Read more from Enigma](https://blog.enigma.co/?source=post_page-----
ed48621754ad--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![LINE Blockchain](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*rYs-
vne4TvzYzm9QsnSC_w.png)](https://lineblockchain.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[LINE Blockchain

](https://lineblockchain.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

in

[LINE Blockchain

](https://medium.com/lineblockchain?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## LINE Blockchain Weekly Report (2021.09.20~2021.09.26)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*CdbmPiDZ-
ilta-9wh3xw0w.png)](https://medium.com/lineblockchain/line-blockchain-weekly-
report-2021-09-20-2021-09-26-9913655b45f0?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Michael
Oluseye](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*us5SZxHsUz_T7iUq.jpg)](https://michlany.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Michael Oluseye

](https://michlany.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## StaFi Network ‚Äî Collaboration with Pancakeswap for the Liquidity based
Mining Program

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*6OIQYe5u9fQ-
CPOmAJ8MGw.jpeg)](https://michlany.medium.com/stafi-network-collaboration-
with-pancakeswap-for-the-liquidity-based-mining-
program-68c65ec9889c?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Hito
Protocol](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Zxb2u0PtIeEPs4VBoqo8Pg.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@Hito_Protocol?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Hito Protocol

](https://medium.com/@Hito_Protocol?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Unstoppable Acceleration!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Q82xP7Uv45Qx6eXR3bYkmQ.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@Hito_Protocol/unstoppable-
acceleration-24ef8c411d21?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Urs Gubser](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*8xLV8Mw6RNXK-
dJs.)](https://urs-19064.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[Urs Gubser

](https://urs-19064.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

in

[The Startup

](https://medium.com/swlh?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## What investors, innovators and entrepreneurs get wrong about distributed
ledger technology and‚Ä¶

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*trr150aGEH7otSR5R5ujMQ.png)](https://medium.com/swlh/what-
investors-innovators-and-entrepreneurs-get-wrong-about-distributed-ledger-
technology-and-d53b27841370?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![James
Dean](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*7sJUvxqLL21jHKAwoJO8gg.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@jamesdean3?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[James Dean

](https://medium.com/@jamesdean3?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Why Unibright may be a hidden gem

](https://medium.com/@jamesdean3/why-unibright-may-be-a-hidden-gem-
ecbb0c5204e5?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

[[![Helen
IMAH](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*7YTeaX7hbpPfpwM3pjXUmw.jpeg)](https://hiboat.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Helen IMAH

](https://hiboat.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Introducing Cartesi, the Operating System For DApps

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*nwqqf5iwQ1ZcS_32qf1mTg.png)](https://hiboat.medium.com/introducing-
cartesi-the-operating-system-for-dapps-e258f128e435?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[[![Investment
Moneta](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*xHJbSYgbAWM9tZsUDFhqqA.png)](https://medium.com/@investmentmoneta?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Investment Moneta

](https://medium.com/@investmentmoneta?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Do you have the advantages if your create your own NFT marketplace?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*T4B5JNJyPa9nNRcrrRK8Bg.png)](https://medium.com/coinmonks/do-
you-have-the-advantages-if-your-create-your-own-nft-
marketplace-8785f540cfc0?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![MatrixETF](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*IkDtuRuSLlL4wqYlbsJZ0Q.png)](https://matrixetf.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[MatrixETF

](https://matrixetf.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## MatrixETF Is Integrating Chainlink Price Feeds to Help Secure its
Decentralized ETF Ecosystem

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*mSz8xPL-
Zm6GFa64)](https://matrixetf.medium.com/matrixetf-is-integrating-chainlink-
price-feeds-to-help-secure-its-decentralized-etf-
ecosystem-99e086eb9679?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](https://medium.com/?source=post_page-----
ed48621754ad--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
ed48621754ad--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
ed48621754ad--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
ed48621754ad--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
ed48621754ad--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----ed48621754ad--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----ed48621754ad--------------------------------)

[Get
started](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fintroducing-
secret-network-ed48621754ad&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Enigma
Project](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/2*2SRmuGkTHWle_KyV3jfGhQ.png)](https://medium.com/@EnigmaMPC)

[

## Enigma Project

](https://medium.com/@EnigmaMPC)

6.5K Followers

Enigma is securing the decentralized web. We solve for privacy with ‚Äúsecret‚Äù
smart contracts, allowing dApps and blockchains to use private/sensitive data.

[Follow](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fsubscribe%2Fuser%2F4f5f09fa22fb&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fintroducing-
secret-network-
ed48621754ad&user=Enigma+Project&userId=4f5f09fa22fb&source=post_page-4f5f09fa22fb
-------------------------follow_profile-----------)

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2Ffcc87216ce8e&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fintroducing-
secret-network-
ed48621754ad&newsletterV3=4f5f09fa22fb&newsletterV3Id=fcc87216ce8e&user=Enigma+Project&userId=4f5f09fa22fb&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Crypto
Exchangers](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*G7DZ_e4Fdz8tsEg6)](https://cryptoexchangers.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------326f4317_1515_4665_8bbc_57617819ccbf-------)

[Crypto Exchangers

](https://cryptoexchangers.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------326f4317_1515_4665_8bbc_57617819ccbf-------)

## ICHI has fallen

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Q26_-LU2qOqn_GVeBHJ76A.jpeg)](https://cryptoexchangers.medium.com/ichi-
has-fallen-7b7ba7085a98?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
326f4317_1515_4665_8bbc_57617819ccbf-------)

[[![MagicCrotion](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*1qtXNBulPdJ2nT9jYQczQg.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@magiccrotion?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------326f4317_1515_4665_8bbc_57617819ccbf-------)

[MagicCrotion

](https://medium.com/@magiccrotion?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------326f4317_1515_4665_8bbc_57617819ccbf-------)

## MagicCrotion, what is it?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*t9Iw8Z-9EGJ6j54RFs8N5A.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@magiccrotion/magiccrotion-
what-is-it-fc870997fe64?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
326f4317_1515_4665_8bbc_57617819ccbf-------)

[[![Judeamanze](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](https://medium.com/@judeamanze662?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------326f4317_1515_4665_8bbc_57617819ccbf-------)

[Judeamanze

](https://medium.com/@judeamanze662?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------326f4317_1515_4665_8bbc_57617819ccbf-------)

## NUTBOX : A new platform for the crypto community with low fee and speedy
transactions.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*7hPTQXTuegNJX1q9sm0k7Q.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@judeamanze662/nutbox-
a-new-platform-for-the-crypto-community-with-low-fee-and-speedy-
transactions-470c3b96e77e?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------326f4317_1515_4665_8bbc_57617819ccbf-------)

[[![Official
01node](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*W0GFn4b3Zptz8jhCX-m5GQ@2x.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@faith_26066?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------326f4317_1515_4665_8bbc_57617819ccbf-------)

[Official 01node

](https://medium.com/@faith_26066?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------326f4317_1515_4665_8bbc_57617819ccbf-------)

in

[01node

](https://medium.com/01node?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------326f4317_1515_4665_8bbc_57617819ccbf-------)

## 5 Networks with high APY you can earn from in 2022

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*_q9NjjkGf61l3-PXh2eDtQ@2x.jpeg)](https://medium.com/01node/5-networks-
with-high-apy-you-can-earn-from-in-2022-e91c59d188bc?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------326f4317_1515_4665_8bbc_57617819ccbf-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](https://medium.com/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

