[![esprezzo-logo@2x](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-fs/hubfs/esprezzo-
logo@2x.png?width=261&name=esprezzo-logo@2x.png)](https://esprezzo.io)

  * [Products](https://esprezzo.io/products)
  * [Developers](https://esprezzo.io/developers)
  * [About](https://esprezzo.io/about)
  * [Blog](https://blog.esprezzo.io)
  * [GET AN INVITE](https://esprezzo.io/invite)

##  [The Esprezzo Blog](https://blog.esprezzo.io)

# Introducing Dispatch

by [Esprezzo Team](https://blog.esprezzo.io/author/esprezzo-team) on October
5, 2020

  * [Tweet](https://twitter.com/share)
  *   * 

Today we’re thrilled to introduce Dispatch — a new tool designed to save you
time by automating repetitive lookups of blockchain, DeFi, crypto, and smart
contract activity.

![screen shot of Esprezzo Dispatch web application for blockchain
notifications and automated workflows](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-
fs/hubfs/Introducing-Esprezzo-Dispatch.jpg?width=600&name=Introducing-
Esprezzo-Dispatch.jpg)

At Esprezzo we strip away the complexities of the decentralized tech stack so
you can focus on what matters most. For blockchain enthusiasts, DeFi
communities, crypto traders and developers,
[Dispatch](https://esprezzo.io/products) will give you the ability to
automatically detect on-chain activity and send that information where you
need it when you need it.

Our community has been using our no-code blockchain interface for more than a
year via our [Discord chat bot (PerkleBot)](/esprezzo-libraries-perklebot-
blockchain-discord-bot-smart-contract-perkle-tokens) and with Dispatch we are
unlocking the ability for more crypto users to make their own alerts and
automated workflows using our technology.

Built with no-code simplicity, real-time access to blockchain data and our
next gen infrastructure, we are excited to introduce Dispatch.

## So What is Dispatch?

Dispatch is your hub for crypto, DeFi and blockchain automation. With
Dispatch, you can create notifications and automated workflows using
blockchain and smart contract data in just a few clicks without writing a
single line of code.

Say goodbye to manually searching and monitoring block explorers and exchanges
or sifting through smart contract source code.

![esprezzo-dispatch-diagram-2000px@2x](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-
fs/hubfs/esprezzo-dispatch-diagram-2000px@2x.png?width=800&name=esprezzo-
dispatch-diagram-2000px@2x.png)

Throughout the course of our product development we have been speaking with
crypto and DeFi enthusiasts as well as day traders and crypto fund managers.
One thing we know and keep hearing about is that we all need an easier way to
get the most basic on-chain data. Such as:

  * Monitoring balance and transaction activity for multiple addresses and cryptocurrencies on Ethereum and Perkle
  * Wanting to know when a new liquidity pool is being added to decentralized exchanges like [Uniswap](https://uniswap.org/) without having to constantly check their social media feeds, Discord or Telegram channels
  * Tracking volume movement of stablecoins like [Tether](https://tether.to/) as indicators of upcoming liquidity in the market

These are just a few examples of what Dispatch can automate and we can’t wait
to see what workflows you come up with.

[![GET AN INVITE](https://no-
cache.hubspot.com/cta/default/4632193/d43c4e29-e1d1-4869-a761-3b6c916310ee.png)](https://cta-
redirect.hubspot.com/cta/redirect/4632193/d43c4e29-e1d1-4869-a761-3b6c916310ee)

We envision Esprezzo Dispatch becoming your hub for crypto DeFi and blockchain
automation and we are excited for you to join us with the first step in making
that a reality by [requesting an invite](https://esprezzo.io/invite).

Getting on the invite list means you'll be the first to know when Dispatch
launches publicly. If you're interested in helping us test Dispatch before
public release, we welcome you to [apply to our beta testing
program](https://info.esprezzo.io/become-a-beta-tester).

## What about Esprezzo’s API and Developer Tools?

If you have been following Esprezzo development, you may be asking when you
will be able to use Esprezzo’s Omni API and SDKs. Don’t fret, those are still
in development and will become available in 2021. We believe pressure testing
the infrastructure and API via Dispatch will allow us to provide you and
future developers with a performant, stable and scalable API.

Those of you who have signed up for the Developer beta — we will reach out
when the developer tools are ready for testing. Stay tuned for more
information about the API, SDKs and smart contract tools.

Don’t miss important Esprezzo updates! Subscribe to our newsletter, follow us
on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/Esprezzoapp) and join us on
[Discord](https://discord.gg/uuCT89F) to get the latest updates.

Topics: [Product Updates](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/product-updates)

![Esprezzo Team](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hubfs/favicon-196-1.png)

###### [Esprezzo Team](https://blog.esprezzo.io/author/esprezzo-team)

We're on a mission to make it easier and faster for anyone to use blockchain
data to drive decisions and workflow automations. Whether you're a DeFi
enthusiast, crypto trader or developer building revolutionary blockchain-based
applications, we're here to help you bring your vision to reality.

[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/esprezzoapp/)
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/esprezzo-app/)
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/esprezzoapp)

## Esprezzo and blockchain-related news for developers and business leaders

Best practices and industry news for growing your business with decentralized
and blockchain-integrated applications

### Subscribe Here!

### Recent Posts

### Posts by Tags

  * [News (14)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/news)
  * [Events (12)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/events)
  * [Product Updates (10)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/product-updates)
  * [Perkle (9)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/perkle)
  * [Research & Analysis (7)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/research-analysis)
  * [Education (6)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/education)
  * [Partnerships (5)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/partnerships)
  * [Blockchain 101 (4)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/blockchain-101)
  * [Press Release (1)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/press-release)

See all

### Technology

[Perkle Protocol](https://esprezzo.io/perkle)

[GitHub](https://github.com/esprezzo)

### Company

[About](https://esprezzo.io/about)

[Blog](https://blog.esprezzo.io)

[Contact](https://esprezzo.io/about#contact)

### Connect

[Discord](https://discord.gg/uuCT89F)

[Twitter](https://twitter.com/esprezzoapp)

[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/esprezzo-app/)

**Stay in the know**

Get news and product updates from Esprezzo

[![esprezzo_logo_red-white_sept2020@2x](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-
fs/hubfs/esprezzo_logo_red-
white_sept2020@2x.png?width=263&name=esprezzo_logo_red-
white_sept2020@2x.png)](https://esprezzo.io)

©2020 Esprezzo. All rights reserved.

