[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ 中文 ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [updates](../../../blog/updates)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Oct 9, 2020  

## Introducing the Building Web3 Video Series

In just the past few months, dozens of new applications, services, and
businesses utilizing web3 have come to life, leveraging Filecoin and IPFS in
exciting ways.

**Today we’re excited to announce the launch of the** [**Building Web3 Video
Series**](https://buildingweb3.com/), which is dedicated to these
technologists, teams, and visionaries who are making a tangible impact now by
building valuable tools and services for a web3 world. Over the coming months,
this series will showcase the builders bringing to life these awesome, never-
before-possible protocols, apps, and services.

The [first video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d1kpID1LSRE) in the Building
Web3 Series features [Textile](http://textile.io/). In April, we
[featured](https://filecoin.io/blog/community-andrew-hill-textile/) Textile
Co-Founder Andrew Hill on this blog. Since then, Textile has launched
[Powergate](https://blog.textile.io/integrating-powergate/), a technology that
seamlessly unites IPFS and Filecoin storage, [Textile
Hub](https://blog.textile.io/announcing-the-textile-protocol-hub/), a
collection of developer libraries and services that connect and extend IPFS,
libp2p, and Filecoin, and the [User Mailbox
API](https://blog.textile.io/introducing-textiles-user-mailboxes-send-
messages-between-users-or-any-public-key-owners/), an API for secure message
delivery for web3 apps. Textile’s suite of developer tools abstracts complex
protocol functions and interactions in simple and elegant ways. These tools
allow developers to experiment and build meaningful experiences with web3
protocols like libp2p, IPFS, and Filecoin. User-applications like
[Slate](https://slate.host/) and [many
others](https://filecoin.io/blog/hackfs-finale/) use Textile’s tools to build
web3-based products and services on the Filecoin network quickly.

In this initial Building Web3 video, Andrew Hill eloquently highlights
Textile’s genesis and inspiration for focusing on developer tooling:

_“We decided to build a really simple use-case on web3 technologies. We used
that as almost like a field study, we learned how difficult that process was,
and we realized we really needed to build the underlying technologies to make
it easier for other developers to build engaging, useful experiences on web3
technologies.”_

The Filecoin ecosystem is privileged to have such thoughtful community
members. Today we’re honored to showcase Textile’s vision and contributions.

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You’ve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

