[Go Back](../../)[Fleek.co](https://Fleek.co)

# Introducing Fleek

![](https://fleek-team-bucket.storage.fleek.co/FleekIntro.jpg)

Today, weâ€™re excited to launch a new version of Fleek - the easiest way to
build, deploy, and host websites & apps on IPFS. From local development to
global deployment, Fleek provides one seamless workflow with everything you
need to build fast, modern sites & web apps hosted on IPFS. All you have to do
is link your github, and within a few clicks you will have your first site
deployed to IPFS (and everytime after that it will happen automatically ðŸ˜„)

Starting today, Fleek is in a closed beta. If youâ€™re interested in getting
early access to our new product and participating in the beta, request early
access [here](https://terminalbeta.typeform.com/to/kionHH) and we will reach
out when itâ€™s your turn to schedule a demo and help you get started.

## How We Got Here

When we started Fleek a little over a year ago, our mission was to build tools
and products that made it easier for people to use decentralized technologies,
with the overarching goal of helping make Web 3 and a â€˜decentralized internetâ€™
a reality. Our initial focus (Fleek V1) was on tools and products related to
Ethereum smart contracts and dapps, as thatâ€™s what we had previous experience
with. But after releasing a few tools and products for Ethereum dapps last
year, we started to ask ourselves a deeper question - what even is a dapp?

## What Even is a Dapp?

Decentralized applications or â€˜dappsâ€™ as people think about them today, are
really just an app that interacts with a smart contract in some way. But the
only thing decentralized about todayâ€™s dapps are the fact that they use a
smart contract - everything else about the â€˜dappâ€™ is still centralized.

We started to think about why that is, and what we quickly realized is that
there is a ton more work to do in order to really build Web 3 across the
stack. While we still believe Ethereum & smart contracts will play one of the
most critical roles in Web 3, there are other important components like
decentralized storage, databases, hosting, etc. that need to be built and
adopted in order to make Web 3 a reality.

## New Approach to Web 3 Adoption

We decided that we wanted to focus on helping the Ethereum community, Web 3
community, and the much larger Web 2 community start decentralizing core
aspects of their sites & apps - but do so in a user friendly and use case
specific way, with an incremental decentralization path, so that we can really
start bringing the Web 2 community into Web 3.

Our thinking is that jumping from Web 2 directly to smart contracts might not
be the easiest path, and every site might not necessarily need smart
contracts. But we do know sites will always need things such as hosting,
storage, etc. - so if we can start offering decentralized alternatives to
these core pillars in a familiar way, and provide tangible benefits to using
these decentralized alternatives such as cost, performance, security,
decentralization, etc., it will be a much easier transition that will lead to
broader and faster Web 3 adoption.

## Fleek Roadmap

The mission for Fleek is still the same as it was when we started the company
- to build tools and products that make it easier for people to use
decentralized technologies. The only critical difference with Fleek is that
now the tools and products we build can be used not just by the blockchain
community, but by the entire web community.

To start, we decided to focus on IPFS hosting because we believe that

  * most of the infrastructure needed to start decentralizing the hosting aspect of a site or app is available today.
  * there is interest from the Ethereum & Web 3 community to host sites on IPFS.
  * the process to build, deploy, and host a site or web app on IPFS (especially one that is updated frequently) is time consuming and difficult
  * trends in web development like serverless, no code/low code, and the JAM Stack make IPFS hosting feasible and attractive to both Web 3 and Web 2 companies.

Our initial IPFS hosting product is not 100% decentralized, but itâ€™s a big
step in the right direction and provides a good balance of decentralization
vs. performance/experience (and also itâ€™s the extent of whatâ€™s possible to
decentralize today). For example, DNS will be centralized until decentralized
alternatives are realistic to use as a full replacement for DNS. And in order
to make IPFS hosted sites as fast and performant as normal sites, we offer an
optional enterprise-grade, global CDN you can use. The CDN itself is
centralized, however if the CDN ever went down all sites are still fully
accessible (they might just load a bit slower), so using it shouldnâ€™t be a
concern. We also have some cool plans to decentralize the CDN aspect of our
stack in the future.

A lot of the inspiration for Fleek comes from the low code movement that
companies like Netlify and Gatsby are pioneering, and part of our goal with
Fleek is to help bring the benefits of low code to Web 3. So after our initial
IPFS hosting product, our plan is to expand into other products that sites and
apps commonly need such as Auth, Forms, CMS, etc. - but similar to our core
IPFS hosting product, they will all be powered by decentralized technologies
and infrastructure. Our plan is to work with projects in the Web 3 (and Web2)
space who are building protocols and products in those various areas to launch
these additional products over time and provide a seamless development
experience to our users.

Weâ€™re super excited to embark on this new journey and to help bring the next
million devs into the Web 3 space. Weâ€™d love to invite you all into our
community to try out the new product and get your feedback. And if you feel
there are opportunities to collaborate with us please reach out, weâ€™d be happy
to chat!

  * Join our [Community Chat](https://slack.fleek.co/)
  * Follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/FleekHQ)
  * Contact us at hi@fleek.co

Check out [Tech Docs](https://docs.fleek.co/)

PS. This blog is hosted on IPFS using Fleek ðŸ˜„

\- Harrison

Published 15 Feb 2020

  * [general](../../tag/general/)
  * [launch](../../tag/launch/)

Fleek is all you need to build websites and apps on the new Open Web:
permissionless, trustless, censorship resistant, and free of centralized
gatekeepers. Welcome to the new internet.[](https://www.twitter.com/FleekHQ)

