[ Woobull ](https://woobull.com)

  * [About](https://woobull.com/about/)
  * [Charts](http://charts.woobull.com/)
  * [Articles](https://woobull.com/)
  * [→ Research](https://woobull.com/tag/research/)
  * [→ Infographics](https://woobull.com/tag/infographic/)
  * [→ Humour](https://woobull.com/tag/humour/)
  * [→ Bitcoin](https://woobull.com/tag/bitcoin/)
  * [→ Markets](https://woobull.com/tag/markets/)
  * [→ Dataviz](https://woobull.com/tag/data-visualisation/)
  * [→ Altcoins](https://woobull.com/tag/altcoins/)
  * [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNSawUAJPtGqnhpucPqdDrw)

[ ](https://twitter.com/woonomic "Twitter")

Subscribe

[Research](https://woobull.com/tag/research/)

# Introducing the Difficulty Ribbon, signaling the best times to buy Bitcoin

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

#### [Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/)

Aug 1, 2019 • 2 min read

Introducing the Bitcoin Difficulty Ribbon. When the ribbon compresses, or
flips negative, these are the best times to buy Bitcoin. The ribbon consists
of simple moving averages on mining difficulty so we can easily see the rate
of change in difficulty.

![](https://woobull.com/content/images/2019/08/image.png)

### How it the Difficulty Ribbon works

This visualisation of network mining difficulty speaks to the impact of mining
on Bitcoin's price. As new coins are mined into existence, miners sell some of
their mined coins to pay for production costs. This produces bearish price
pressure.

The weakest miners sell more of their coins to remain operational. When it
becomes unsustainable, they capitulate, hashing power and network difficulty
reduces (ribbon compression), leaving only the strong, who sell less leaving
more room for more bullish price action.

Typically we see this at the end of bear cycles, after miners capitulate, the
lack of miner selling pressure allows the price to stabilise and then climb;
the classic accumulation bottom.

![](https://woobull.com/content/images/2019/08/image-1.png)

Credit goes to [Vinny Lingham](https://twitter.com/VinnyLingham) who was the
first as far as I know to spot this dynamic in his [April 2014 article on how
Bitcoin finds its price equilibrium](https://vinnylingham.com/finding-
equilibrium-searching-for-the-true-value-of-a-bitcoin-ba5f3fcce103). We now
have 5 more years of data to back it up.

Miners capitulate in bears, but also during block reward halvening events when
suddenly only half the coins are mined for the same costs and the market price
has yet to catch up to pay for it. We can easily see the compression after
each halvening (marked as vertical lines) as miners die off.

![](https://woobull.com/content/images/2019/08/image-2.png)

As a final note, notice how the 2019 the 2012 bull market have the same
structure, we saw severe mining capitulation (i.e. the ribbon flipped
negative), the resulting vacuum in selling pressure lead to a shorter
accumulation band before price breakout. Thus this bull market has resembles
2012 more than 2016 structurally.

![](https://woobull.com/content/images/2019/08/image-3.png)

## Sign up for more like this.

Enter your email Subscribe

[

## Supply Shock, predicting price by quantifying intent to buy and sell

IntroductionIn any market, price is driven by demand and supply. This is a
fundamental. The most obvious way of seeing this is in the bid and asks
between buyers and sellers. A more nuanced way would be to wave a magic wand
and gauge the intent of investors before the

](/quantifying-supply-shock/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Aug 10, 2021 • 4 min read

[

## The two types of Altcoins, an investor's view

This is a thread on altcoins, first published on Twitter. Altcoins are
nuanced. We have: Protocol coinsUtility tokensSecurity tokensNon-fungible
tokensBut to an investor, there's only 2 types. Oscillators and Degenerators.
You can spot them on this chart of the entire market. The vast majority of
alt-coins are Degenerators. Their price

](/the-two-types-of-altcoins-an-investors-view/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Nov 7, 2019 • 2 min read

[

## When did Bitcoin's investment era begin? A study using NVT.

For those familiar with NVT Ratio, the data from the early years comes off
very skewed, sometimes written off as noisy rubbish data. To answer the
mystery of early NVT moonage, come with me on a trip down memory lane and
visit the transactional data of Bitcoin's early years. How

](/bitcoins-early-investment-era-under-nvt-ratio/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Apr 13, 2019 • 4 min read

[Woobull](https://woobull.com) (C) 2022

[Powered by Ghost](https://ghost.org/)

