[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/13566ea57d0e&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![BlocksetHQ](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*AeDR47iyu3-7YKooygJrzg.png)](https://medium.com/blocksethq?source=post_page
-----13566ea57d0e--------------------------------)

Published in

[BlocksetHQ

](https://medium.com/blocksethq?source=post_page-----
13566ea57d0e--------------------------------)

[![Blockset](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/2*EGqsd_JFSdppEEEXi9arRg.png)](/@BlocksetHQ?source=post_page
-----13566ea57d0e--------------------------------)

[Blockset](/@BlocksetHQ?source=post_page-----
13566ea57d0e--------------------------------)

Follow

Feb 12, 2020

·

4 min read

# Introducing Blockset: Enterprise Blockchain Solutions

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*So5j6kZyTxx41DTX)

BRD has reached a new stage in its evolution. Over the past 11 years, the
blockchain industry has witnessed significant adoption at the consumer level.
Much of this adoption is thanks to the great success of applications like our
own BRD wallet — a free-to-use app, serving over 3 million users across 170
countries — but adoption at the ground level is not all that’s needed. There
needs to be more enablement for the enterprise ecosystem. Enterprise access
would allow millions of institutions’ clients to be onboarded to the
cryptoasset space and truly show companies how blockchain technology can
transform their business. Over the past 6 years, we have built a tremendous
amount of infrastructure to support the BRD wallet and provide an excellent
user experience. We’ve now expanded and productized that supporting technology
into a B2B solution, **allowing enterprises to reimagine how they can
incorporate blockchain technology into their businesses.** **This new
initiative is now**[
**Blockset**](https://blockset.com/?utm_source=Medium&utm_medium=Blog&utm_campaign=Feb12)
**, which is in production and ready for enterprise use.**

> “Today’s financial environment is rapidly supporting cryptoassets, and with
> 90% of major banks now exploring crypto, it’s clear that there’s a quiet
> groundswell of new initiatives and opportunities within the enterprise
> blockchain segment,” said Adam Traidman, CEO and co-founder of BRD. “That is
> why we developed our own proprietary platform (Blockset) which banks,
> financial services, and large crypto companies will now be able to leverage
> to accelerate their time to market and deliver enterprise solutions to scale
> on a global basis for a fraction of the development costs.”

Blockset not only fundamentally realigns BRD’s business model to meet the high
growth demands of the financial services and banking industry worldwide, but
it allows enterprises of varying sizes to get to market quickly, securely, and
in a cost-effective fashion. **Over 20 financial titans are currently
evaluating Blockset** in a private pre-release program, including SBI
Holdings, PayPal, KPMG, and Ripple’s developer initiative, Xpring.

# The Building Blocks for Blockchain

As with any new technology, there is a steep learning curve with understanding
how to best interact with it. For blockchain data, in particular, parsing
through network data and understanding how to integrate with it is a costly
headache. Industry standards are not established and companies need to hire
blockchain experts — who are few and far between — to help build custody
solutions, host nodes, build block explorers, and more. For this reason,
blockchain data needs to be **normalized, aggregated, and easily integrated
with existing systems** — which is precisely what the Blockset platform does.

Blockset does this by providing three key components:

1\. BlockchainDB — an enterprise-grade, unified API with a guaranteed uptime
of 99.999%

2\. WalletKit — a mobile SDK for building trusted custody solutions

3\. ChainOps — professional services for deploying, hosting, and maintaining
blockchains

# BlockchainDB: Your Professional Data Feed

BlockchainDB is a unified API that offers much-needed access to normalized and
aggregated data across multiple blockchains. Blockset offers different levels
of guaranteed availability of up to 99.999% uptime. This ensures both high
data integrity as well as availability.

# WalletKit: Your Mobile SDK

WalletKit is a mobile SDK that enables companies to focus on building a sleek
wallet and not lost focusing on the deep cryptographic functions required to
generate public keys, private keys, and the 12-word recovery keys associated
with each private key.

The SDK comes ready with three libraries that support Core, iOS, and Android.
Core handles the cryptographic functions and blockchain communications, while
the Android and iOS libraries enable the development of platform-specific user
experiences.

# ChainOps: Your Professional Services

The Blockset platform is not only a technology offering but also a
consultative team that will gain a comprehensive understanding of both
technology and business needs for your organization. Whether you need specific
blockchains added to our platform (full historic nodes), specific data points
exposed to your network, or custom blockchains built for your ecosystem, we
are here to help along the way.

# Enterprise-grade Data Security, Reliability, and Integrity

Blockset prioritizes data security and integrity. To mitigate the single-
point-of-failure issue, Blockset runs multiple instances of BlockchainDB,
distributed across the globe, each running on a mix of cloud-provided and
colocated infrastructure. Each Point of Presence (POP) runs several nodes for
each blockchain. This allows us to guarantee 99.999% uptime with disaster
recovery plans in place.

# Leading Applications Built with Blockset

Common [solutions for
Blockset](https://blockset.com/solutions?utm_source=Medium&utm_medium=Blog&utm_campaign=Feb12)
are:

  1.  **Custodial services** : banks, asset managers, and funds can now satisfy customer requests for investing in cryptoassets.
  2.  **Commercial Block Explorers** : obtain clean blockchain data to help ensure clients on the exact status of a transaction. Show how many confirmations a transaction has, or show if it is still pending in a node’s mempool. Create multi-address input to view transaction information of multiple transactions at once.
  3.  **Permissioned blockchains** : commonly referred to as private blockchains, or in the case where multiple companies want to share certain data, ‘consortium’ blockchains, we can aggregate and normalize private chain data into the BlockchainDB unified API.
  4.  **Data analysis for investors** : speculators and investors can gain real-time insights in which chains have more transaction volume, hash power, average transaction fees, and overall interest from the community. Using webhooks we can push virtually any desired data you may need.
  5.  **Data analysis for compliance** : governments, private investigation companies, or technology firms looking to enter the chain analysis niche can take advantage of our offering by having it jumpstart their entire infrastructure and setup for analyzing clean, normalized blockchain data.
  6.  **And much more…** we are excited to see the creativity that developers will bring to the industry and hope they use our data solutions to their fullest potential.

If you are interested to learn more about Blockset, please [reach out to us
here](https://blockset.com/go?utm_source=Medium&utm_medium=Blog&utm_campaign=Feb12).

Best,

Blockset Team

\--

\--

\--

## [More from BlocksetHQ](/blocksethq?source=post_page-----
13566ea57d0e--------------------------------)

Enterprise blockchain data

[Read more from BlocksetHQ](/blocksethq?source=post_page-----
13566ea57d0e--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![SimpleChain](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*CTw5LZNWDMAynIN_ds_bfg.jpeg)](/@simplechain?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[SimpleChain

](/@simplechain?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## SimpleChain Weekly Report:April26-May08

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*KBde679oFjId0se61IqwMQ.png)](/@simplechain/simplechain-
weekly-report-april26-may08-4e08e9dabccc?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Alberto Cuesta
Cañada](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*FmM57rntjA9sQCNBo5XAPw.jpeg)](/@albertocuestacanada?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Alberto Cuesta Cañada

](/@albertocuestacanada?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

in

[HackerNoon.com

](https://medium.com/hackernoon?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## I was the Blockchain Architect for a dozen projects, and this is what I
learnt.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*MtlTfc9pWCv9iz6748bH0Q.jpeg)](/hackernoon/i-was-
the-blockchain-architect-for-a-dozen-projects-and-this-is-what-i-
learnt-7a17b36bad02?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Kevin
Lu](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*hV_229ptfvMBWJX7DbFtsA.jpeg)](/@kevinjaylu?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Kevin Lu

](/@kevinjaylu?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[Band Protocol

](https://medium.com/bandprotocol?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## #1 Cosmos Validator & Game of Stakes Winner stakefish Enters Strategic
Partnership With Band…

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*DxZGo5xOBaK8SwVP)](/bandprotocol/1-cosmos-
validator-game-of-stakes-winner-stakefish-enters-strategic-partnership-with-
band-89696a4e8cb4?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Michael Bacina](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*txfWOaD-
SbFzvx1NtonvCQ.jpeg)](/@MikeBacina?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[Michael Bacina

](/@MikeBacina?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## IP rights in NFTs: What can be done with CryptoPunks and Bored Apes?

![IP rights in NFTs: What can be done with CryptoPunks and Bored
Apes?](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*1XYi-
oWJM5FzjcA6.png)](/@MikeBacina/ip-rights-in-nfts-what-can-be-done-with-
cryptopunks-and-bored-apes-4aa27e119f9e?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![ONO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*gkLlwjdSjrz-
zJRx.jpg)](/@ONOsocial?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[ONO

](/@ONOsocial?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## ONO Weekly Update: May 25 - June 1, 2018

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*PdUV13tSEBKcH7N8PJOWwg.png)](/@ONOsocial/ono-
weekly-update-may-25-june-1-2018-2eff93c22d09?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[[![AuroraFS](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*jG6PrcuLOhnC9Gp5J3USuQ.png)](/@aurorafilesystem?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[AuroraFS

](/@aurorafilesystem?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## What role does AuroraFS play in the era of Web 3.0?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*5Iczf8nXML0z1fo7EFcKcg.jpeg)](/@aurorafilesystem/what-
role-does-aurorafs-play-in-the-era-of-
web-3-0-d11b14a27b40?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Walter
Montes](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*9kqeHCKqzFMXATDoaGk73w.jpeg)](/@waltermontes?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Walter Montes

](/@waltermontes?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[Covalent

](https://medium.com/covalentxhq?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Blockchain is slowing down (according to Bloomberg)… and that’s fine

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*RJmXxQP5ErZCHjIkKSqGAg.png)](/covalentxhq/blockchain-
is-slowing-down-according-to-bloomberg-and-thats-
fine-d574d5eb4ce2?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![SIMON
GADIR](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*IFV0Beqyf2inJOyvcs0TtA.jpeg)](/@GADIROZ?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[SIMON GADIR

](/@GADIROZ?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

## BOSCore — Content is King… Usuallly!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*1qB9nepSBlnkO3kRJyC-
Dw.png)](/@GADIROZ/boscore-content-is-king-
usuallly-9e4685ed3682?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----13566ea57d0e--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
13566ea57d0e--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
13566ea57d0e--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
13566ea57d0e--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
13566ea57d0e--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----13566ea57d0e--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----13566ea57d0e--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fblocksethq%2Fintroducing-
blockset-enterprise-blockchain-solutions-13566ea57d0e&source=post_page
--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Blockset](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/2*EGqsd_JFSdppEEEXi9arRg.png)](/@BlocksetHQ)

[

## Blockset

](/@BlocksetHQ)

12 Followers

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fusers%2F4bd1e7b24281%2Flazily-enable-
writer-
subscription&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fblocksethq%2Fintroducing-
blockset-enterprise-blockchain-
solutions-13566ea57d0e&user=Blockset&userId=4bd1e7b24281&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Odeshina Abdul-
Quadri](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*OHdRt1EvWu2AnKIO)](/@odeshinaquhadri?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------2bfdafbc_d40b_494e_87a4_0eb5c9701874-------)

[Odeshina Abdul-Quadri

](/@odeshinaquhadri?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
2bfdafbc_d40b_494e_87a4_0eb5c9701874-------)

## Web2 vs Web3: Key Differences

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*bzrVk8PPFA1tejTkpEj2CQ.jpeg)](/@odeshinaquhadri/web2-vs-
web3-key-differences-ce029bc6fd75?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------2bfdafbc_d40b_494e_87a4_0eb5c9701874-------)

[[![Srimathi
Jagadeesan](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*76QL5nik_9MAnjCK-
Rh6Qg.jpeg)](/@srimathi-jagadeesan?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------2bfdafbc_d40b_494e_87a4_0eb5c9701874-------)

[Srimathi Jagadeesan

](/@srimathi-jagadeesan?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
2bfdafbc_d40b_494e_87a4_0eb5c9701874-------)

in

[hackgenius

](https://medium.com/hackgenius?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------2bfdafbc_d40b_494e_87a4_0eb5c9701874-------)

## My Recent Mentoring Experience: Exploring Technologies!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*v9uu4BTOp_bixzz5)](/hackgenius/my-
recent-mentoring-experience-exploring-
technologies-658e230812d6?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------2bfdafbc_d40b_494e_87a4_0eb5c9701874-------)

[[![Tokenview](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*DfTaexQDawdaOhQ2KXXW2Q.jpeg)](/@tokenview?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------2bfdafbc_d40b_494e_87a4_0eb5c9701874-------)

[Tokenview

](/@tokenview?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
2bfdafbc_d40b_494e_87a4_0eb5c9701874-------)

## The Strongest NFT Knowledge Point In The Whole Network (2)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*eP_g9bzQYeO8_pgj)](/@tokenview/the-
strongest-nft-knowledge-point-in-the-whole-
network-2-b6d3ffc9f718?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
2bfdafbc_d40b_494e_87a4_0eb5c9701874-------)

[[![dHealth](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*uxJMQADwIDbBILdPfoBsQw.png)](/@dHealth?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------2bfdafbc_d40b_494e_87a4_0eb5c9701874-------)

[dHealth

](/@dHealth?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
2bfdafbc_d40b_494e_87a4_0eb5c9701874-------)

in

[dHealth

](https://medium.com/hitfoundation?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------2bfdafbc_d40b_494e_87a4_0eb5c9701874-------)

## Digitizing Healthcare: 7 Trends in 2022

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Qven_y-
GaxM_c8_IR6iMjA.png)](/hitfoundation/digitizing-healthcare-7-trends-
in-2022-ff57f1c7ddd2?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
2bfdafbc_d40b_494e_87a4_0eb5c9701874-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

