###### [![Samourai
Wallet](https://64.media.tumblr.com/avatar_36fa1c18c89f_64.pnj) Samourai
Wallet](/)

* * *

* * *

* * *

x

  * [Archive](/archive)
  * [RSS](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/rss)
  * [Simplify](http://simplifytheme.tumblr.com) version 1.22. Theme Designed & Developed by [](http://amitjakhu.com)Amit Jakhu. Powered by [Tumblr](http://tumblr.com).

[Jun 02  
2019](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/185312260292/introducing-samourai-
dojo-10-open-source-and)

### [Introducing Samourai Dojo 1.0 - Open Source and available to install
today](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/185312260292/introducing-samourai-
dojo-10-open-source-and)

We are proud to announce the release and open sourcing of [Samourai
Dojo](https://href.li/?https://github.com/Samourai-Wallet/samourai-dojo). Dojo
is professional back end software infrastructure that sits on top of and
augments a Bitcoin Core full node to power the most private bitcoin wallet on
the market, Samourai Wallet. This is a huge milestone for us as we have been
working towards this moment since we started Samourai in 2015; a huge win for
the sovereignty of individual users; a win for bitcoin privacy; and a win for
Open Source software.

 **TL;DR - Up until now you have needed to trust Samourai servers with
knowledge of your bitcoin public keys, but now you can now run and host your
own Dojo server and bypass us entirely. This is the most private way of using
Samourai Wallet.**

 **The GitHub Repository:**[
****](https://href.li/?https://github.com/Samourai-Wallet/samourai-
dojo/)[https://github.com/Samourai-Wallet/samourai-
dojo/](https://href.li/?https://github.com/Samourai-Wallet/samourai-dojo/)

##  **Who is it for?**

Samourai Dojo is for anyone who wishes to use Samourai Wallet in the most
private way possible. Using default Samourai Wallet gives you access to the
most advanced transactional privacy enhancing technologies available in any
wallet on the market with features such as
[STONEWALL](https://href.li/?https://samouraiwallet.com/stonewall),
[STONEWALLx2](https://href.li/?https://support.samourai.io/article/74-how-to-
create-a-stonewallx2-transaction),
[Stowaway](https://href.li/?https://support.samourai.io/article/73-creating-a-
stowaway-transaction), and soon
[Whirlpool](https://twitter.com/SamouraiWallet/status/1118538598800871424),
but the trade off is that you must trust Samourai servers with knowledge your
public keys.

Practically this means that even though third party observers and blockchain
analysis snoops won't be as effective when trying to track you versus users of
other wallets, the operators of Samourai Wallet theoretically can. By running
your own instance of Samourai Dojo and connecting it to your Samourai Wallet
you are getting the same transactional privacy tools without leaking any
information to our servers.

##  **What is it?**

Samourai Dojo has been battle tested, powering all current Samourai Wallet
clients. This is professional software that we have invested significant
amounts of time and money into developing and is now being made available to
download, install, and be used by anyone for free. It supports all the
functionality currently provided in Samourai Wallet.  

 **Functionality**

  * Provides unspent output lists to Samourai Wallet using your backing full node
  * Provides fee rates to use from your local mempool.  

  * Mempool Orchestrator for time delayed transactions (Staggered Ricochet)  

  * PushTX endpoint for broadcasting transactions through your backing full node  

 **Support for tracking:**

  * [XPUB](https://href.li/?https://support.samourai.io/article/49-xpub-s-ypub-s-zpub-s) (BIP44)
  * [YPUB](https://href.li/?https://support.samourai.io/article/49-xpub-s-ypub-s-zpub-s) (BIP49)
  * [ZPUB](https://href.li/?https://support.samourai.io/article/49-xpub-s-ypub-s-zpub-s) (BIP84)
  * [BIP47](https://href.li/?https://samouraiwallet.com/paynym) loose addresses (P2PKH, Bech32)
  * [Loose addresses](https://href.li/?https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Address) (P2PKH, P2SH, Bech32)

##  **How to get it?**

We have worked hard to create a experience that is friendly to users with
minimal technical experience. Installation is simple with a single automated
script that will create and setup a full Dojo back end composed of:

  * a bitcoin full node accessible via an ephemeral Tor hidden service  

  * database for storing addresses and transactions of interest  

  * API accessible as a static Tor hidden service  

  * A maintenance tool accessible through a Tor web browser  

![image](https://64.media.tumblr.com/5b430f9e97bbddf71023900dbb2cfaa3/tumblr_inline_psgqztfQwz1tu47rq_500.png)

You can find detailed instructions for installing Dojo using this method on
the [Samourai Dojo Github
repository](https://href.li/?https://github.com/Samourai-Wallet/samourai-
dojo/blob/develop/doc/DOCKER_setup.md).

Users who rather have a plug and play experience will be happy to hear that we
have partnered with [Bitseed](https://href.li/?https://bitseed.org/) to
provide top of the line hardware [preloaded with Samourai
Dojo](https://href.li/?https://samouraiwallet.com/dojo). We are finalising the
production of these high quality dedicated full nodes and they will be
available for sale very soon.  

##  **Final thoughts**

From our humble beginnings in 2015 as two passionate privacy activists working
away on Samourai on nights and weekends at seedy London pubs we have promised
two things:

  1.  **Samourai will open source our back end servers allowing users to bypass our infrastructure entirely.**
  2.  **Samourai will remain in  "unreleased" Alpha status until we do so. **

As an equally humble group of 6 privacy activists remotely working from seedy
pubs around the world we have delivered on promise one. And we are now working
steadily on graduating Samourai Wallet to full release 1.0

You may have noticed the UI changes in the wallet recently. These have been
designed to be as friendly as possible to all the new users who are going to
be joining the platform after 1.0 release, as well as be extendable as
possible for all the functionality we have planned. There remains one final
update before Samourai Wallet graduates to full release, and that is the
ability to pair your wallet to your Samourai Dojo. You should expect this
update any day now.  
  

From the entire Samourai Wallet team, we want to say thank you to our tens of
thousands of testers who have each helped contribute to this moment. And to
our haters who have relentlessly been spreading lies and FUD, **GFY**.  
  
Cheers ,  
 **The Entire Samourai Team**

![image](https://64.media.tumblr.com/c2fe8253641b9f0bac540ad18ea6bd54/tumblr_inline_psgt8sZhFp1tu47rq_500.jpg)

  
We are available as always to answer any questions on
[support.samourai.io](https://href.li/?http://support.samourai.io) or by email
at [support@samouraiwallet.com  
](mailto:support@samouraiwallet.com)You can download Samourai Wallet from the
[Google Play
Store](https://t.umblr.com/redirect?z=https%3A%2F%2Fplay.google.com%2Fstore%2Fapps%2Fdetails%3Fid%3Dcom.samourai.wallet&t=NWM1MmI4YWU4YzM3ZTM3NzVhNjQ3MDljNDVkNzBlYmYxYWQzYzlmYixkWDlEZnNuRw%3D%3D&b=t%3AgssRereQbaKEWqYj4_q6Mw&p=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.samouraiwallet.com%2Fpost%2F185312260292%2Fintroducing-
samourai-dojo-10-open-source-and&m=1&ts=1653240436)  
  

  * [June 02, 2019](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/185312260292/introducing-samourai-dojo-10-open-source-and)

  1. [![](https://64.media.tumblr.com/06144ecfa3533f1ca97f899e40d6a2a0/96bc706e4988d33b-f8/s16x16u_c1/35417a574aa6fd82ec0a220f660e0d4f30118799.pnj)](https://ehyowarrenzy.tumblr.com/ "Aloha ")[ehyowarrenzy](https://ehyowarrenzy.tumblr.com/ "Aloha") liked this 

  2. [![](https://64.media.tumblr.com/avatar_36fa1c18c89f_16.pnj)](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/ "Samourai Wallet")[samouraiwallet](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/ "Samourai Wallet") posted this 

[Older Post](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/183378923792) [Newer
Post](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/186208584657)
![](https://px.srvcs.tumblr.com/impixu?T=1653240436&J=eyJ0eXBlIjoidXJsIiwidXJsIjoiaHR0cDovL2Jsb2cuc2Ftb3VyYWl3YWxsZXQuY29tL3Bvc3QvMTg1MzEyMjYwMjkyL2ludHJvZHVjaW5nLXNhbW91cmFpLWRvam8tMTAtb3Blbi1zb3VyY2UtYW5kIiwicmVxdHlwZSI6MCwicm91dGUiOiIvcG9zdC86aWQvOnN1bW1hcnkiLCJub3NjcmlwdCI6MX0=&U=PIKPOHGDLI&K=47ffaf3c4f89423f9b421bfc157a2ad968d8263aebbd46d9f71955124f1535e8&R=)![](https://px.srvcs.tumblr.com/impixu?T=1653240436&J=eyJ0eXBlIjoicG9zdCIsInVybCI6Imh0dHA6Ly9ibG9nLnNhbW91cmFpd2FsbGV0LmNvbS9wb3N0LzE4NTMxMjI2MDI5Mi9pbnRyb2R1Y2luZy1zYW1vdXJhaS1kb2pvLTEwLW9wZW4tc291cmNlLWFuZCIsInJlcXR5cGUiOjAsInJvdXRlIjoiL3Bvc3QvOmlkLzpzdW1tYXJ5IiwicG9zdHMiOlt7InBvc3RpZCI6IjE4NTMxMjI2MDI5MiIsImJsb2dpZCI6MjM1MTUyNzczLCJzb3VyY2UiOjMzfV0sIm5vc2NyaXB0IjoxfQ==&U=NIFGDLBLNM&K=14bd98b0656750dc573b128070b297ebaf06c5a91de9a059666eb598e73eda9b&R=)

