[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/79f87c6b295b&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Set
Labs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*z_Dy4ahAIeEQC7bguxrRPA.png)](https://medium.com/set-
protocol?source=post_page-----79f87c6b295b--------------------------------)

Published in

[Set Labs

](https://medium.com/set-protocol?source=post_page-----
79f87c6b295b--------------------------------)

[![Anthony
Sassano](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*jdMf10Tdlr17rBVVQVyUbg.png)](/@AnthonySassano?source=post_page
-----79f87c6b295b--------------------------------)

[Anthony Sassano](/@AnthonySassano?source=post_page-----
79f87c6b295b--------------------------------)

Follow

Sep 14, 2020

·

5 min read

#  **Introducing the DeFi Pulse Index on TokenSets**

The DeFi Pulse Index is now available for purchase on TokenSets!

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*8qd_P4DloBlftSt6bTWC6Q.png)

Today, [Set](https://www.tokensets.com/) and [DeFi
Pulse](https://defipulse.com/) are extremely excited to announce the launch of
the DeFi Pulse Index Set on TokenSets! The DeFi Pulse Index (DPI) is built on
Set Protocol’s new v2 infrastructure and consists of 10 of the most popular
DeFi tokens available on Ethereum. The DeFi Pulse Index is available for
purchase on TokenSets and through our integration partners
[Pillar](https://pillarproject.io/), [Zapper](https://zapper.fi/),
[Dharma](https://www.dharma.io/) and
[others](https://www.tokensets.com/integrations).

Indexes are the first major product addition to the protocol as part of the
[Set v2 rollout](/set-protocol/the-set-v2-rollout-explained-308f4859fb12).
With the launch of Index Sets, we’ve added support for a range of new tokens
with more assets such as additional stablecoins, liquidity provider (LP)
tokens and synthetics coming soon.

# Key Points

  * The DeFi Pulse Index consists of 10 DeFi tokens — LEND, YFI, COMP, SNX, MKR, REN, KNC, LRC, BAL and REPv2
  * The index is structured based on a version 0.1 of the methodology
  * The DeFi Pulse Index Set is backed by the DeFi Pulse team and built on Set’s new [v2 architecture](/set-protocol/introducing-set-v2-afc577050bc0)
  * You can purchase the DeFi Pulse Index from TokenSets [here](https://www.tokensets.com/portfolio/dpi)

# Partnership Between DeFi Pulse and Set

A couple of months ago the Set and DeFi Pulse teams identified a clear pain
point for users — there was no easy, cheap, and open way to acquire an index
of the top DeFi tokens on Ethereum. This leads to stress for users when they
are trying to make portfolio allocation decisions and it can be difficult for
them to ascertain which DeFi projects are high quality and worthy of their
investment.

To rectify this, we have worked closely together over the last couple of
months to develop version 0.1 of the methodology to bring the DeFi Pulse Index
Set to life. We believe that this index is the easiest way for people to get
exposure to the top DeFi tokens on Ethereum.

# Index Benefits, Composition and Methodology

The DeFi Pulse Index is the easiest and cheapest way to get exposure to the
DeFi vertical as instead of users having to manually acquire all of these DeFi
tokens from various exchanges, the index allows for 1-click exposure and
rebalances monthly. Users also benefit from significantly reduced Ethereum
network fees (gas) as they are only required to pay the fee once to buy the
index on TokenSets or through other integrations and secondary markets.
Conversely, the index can be sold on the same markets.

The DeFi Pulse Index Set is not a derivative and is a standard ERC20 token —
essentially a wrapper around the 10 included tokens. Due to this, it allows
for powerful composability within the wider DeFi ecosystem through hedging,
use as collateral on platforms such as Aave or Compound, and can be used
within yield farming as a staking asset.

The DeFi Pulse Index uses the version 0.1 of the methodology to determine
which DeFi tokens are included so that users can feel safe knowing that
they’re investing in quality projects. The index utilizes a capitalization
weighted index where the value weight is based off of a DeFi projects market
cap. The full methodology details are linked here.

## [View the Methodology](https://www.pulse.inc/)

The price per token and circulating supply were taken on September 8, 2020
from CoinGecko. The price per token multiplied by the circulating supply
determines the circulating market cap. Each position is weighted by its
relative circulating market cap to other positions in the index.

The index is re-weighted on the first day of every month. Below is the
structure of the DeFi Pulse index (as at 14th of September 2020 at 11:15AM PDT
).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1388/1*mjTFlRPKBrZMEXSkOaWMRw.png)

# How to buy the index

Purchasing and monitoring the DeFi Pulse Index is easy and you have multiple
options:

  * [TokenSets](https://www.tokensets.com/portfolio/dpi)
  * [Uniswap](https://app.uniswap.org/#/swap?inputCurrency=ETH&outputCurrency=0x1494ca1f11d487c2bbe4543e90080aeba4ba3c2b)
  * [Pillar](https://pillarproject.io/)
  * [Dharma](https://www.dharma.io/)
  * [Monolith](https://monolith.xyz/)
  * [Zapper](https://www.zapper.fi/)
  * [Frontier](https://frontierwallet.com/)
  * [DeFi Saver](https://defisaver.com/)

Below, we’ll run through a short guide on how to purchase the DeFi Pulse Index
(DPI). Click [here](https://tokensets.com/portfolio/dpi) to head to the DeFi
Pulse Index page on TokenSets.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*OUmjoPTgneO9QwELq5V0IQ.png)

On this page, you can find all of the relevant information about the DPI Set
including performance history, current composition and technical details like
its associated Ethereum address.

Once you’re logged into your account, feel free to hit the **Buy** button
which will bring up the buy window. From here, input the amount of the DPI you
wish to purchase and select the currency you wish to purchase it with
(TokenSets currently supports paying with DAI, USDC, USDT and ETH for the DPI
Set).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/988/1*qM1WQCvIgzCCKfdQy_SF7A.png)

Now you can click the **Preview Buy** button which will display the summary of
your order. If you’re comfortable with the order, hit **Submit Buy** and then
confirm the transaction on your Ethereum wallet.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/990/1*hMxkTzbGs1t3BBTvo4KqpQ.png)

Congratulations — you are now an owner of the DeFi Pulse Index Set! You can
store this Set anywhere that you usually store your ERC20 tokens — be that in
your favorite desktop or mobile wallet or in your TokenSets account.

# Frequently Asked Questions

## Where can I purchase the DeFi Pulse Index Set?

The index is available for purchase on TokenSets which uses Uniswap in the
background to process the purchase for you.

## How can I purchase a large amount of the DFP Set?

If you are buying quantities of DeFi Pulse Index Set greater than $50,000 USD
please contact us at [hello@setprotocol.com](mailto:hello@setprotocol.com) or
you can mint the Set directly [here](https://tokensets.com/issue/dpi).

## Where can I learn more?

Head to our intercom section for the DeFi Pulse Index
[here](https://help.tokensets.com/en/collections/2545937-portfolios).

## How can I integrate the DeFi Pulse Index into my project?

Feel free to reach out to
[hello@setprotocol.com](mailto:hello@setprotocol.com) for all integration-
related queries.

## Have the new contracts been audited?

To support the DeFi Pulse Index Set, a new set of smart contracts has been
deployed, which has been audited by Open Zeppelin and ABDK.

# Learn more about Set and join our community

[ **Newsletter**](https://cdn.forms-content.sg-
form.com/ec247aa9-142e-11ea-905e-eaa9a3ed73b8) **|**[
**TokenSets**](http://tokensets.com/) **|**[
**Website**](http://setprotocol.com/) **|**[
**Medium**](https://medium.com/set-protocol) **|**[
**Twitter**](https://twitter.com/setprotocol) **|**[
**Discord**](https://discord.gg/ZWY66aR)

\--

5

\--

\--

5

## [More from Set Labs](/set-protocol?source=post_page-----
79f87c6b295b--------------------------------)

Set Protocol is an open-source protocol that leverages DeFi enabling everyone
to build market-leading, innovative structured products. TokenSets is a
seamless portal into Set Protocol, allowing users, through Web3, to build and
get exposure to structured products.

[Read more from Set Labs](/set-protocol?source=post_page-----
79f87c6b295b--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Yanda](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Vaz-BxRFWWXh-
Qu4qkMK1g.png)](/@yandaprotocol?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[Yanda

](/@yandaprotocol?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## ADA — Cardano

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*mZL-
qk_pmD9BtguZiJfY0A.jpeg)](/@yandaprotocol/ada-cardano-
eba68e70ea9e?source=post_internal_links---------0----------------------------)

[[![PrivacySwap](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*X23cBNZfuIpr9pn37QCNiA.png)](/@privacyswap?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[PrivacySwap

](/@privacyswap?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## How the viability of crypto won over prejudices | PrivacySwap stories

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*YWhD1ljxiihDNMmhm9DDWw.png)](/@privacyswap/cryptocurrency-
can-change-your-mind-and-privacyswap-witness-
it-966f53918440?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Avalanche](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*vPuxYoTQ_nTjEe-
OisXiKw.png)](/@avalancheavax?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[Avalanche

](/@avalancheavax?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[Avalanche

](https://medium.com/avalancheavax?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Avalanche Hub — Introducing Token Rewards, Regional Communities & More

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*R_r8H0IPS9KV_SEwHEo-
qQ.png)](/avalancheavax/ava-hub-introducing-token-rewards-regional-
communities-more-16732c9cfb3b?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![JΛRVIS
LEGΛTUS](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*L46qvhIN3kLZVXSAWRSYYw.png)](/@jarvis.legatus?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[JΛRVIS LEGΛTUS

](/@jarvis.legatus?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## UNDERSTANDING JARVIS NETWORK

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*VRKFvKw_vCwugb9fhNPLVA.png)](/@jarvis.legatus/understanding-
jarvis-network-9185ff70329b?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Toju
Kaka](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*zcfywCvHNUC6vII5UZk7LA.png)](/@tojukaka?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Toju Kaka

](/@tojukaka?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

## Uniswap V2 is Live on TokenPocket

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*4ybudoemMFxqTONGBVP2Qg.jpeg)](/@tojukaka/uniswap-v2-is-
live-on-tokenpocket-bd0bf9f55c9e?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Blockchain.com](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*edHEjIkFn5YuPODO7wKOYw.png)](/@blockchain?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Blockchain.com

](/@blockchain?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[@blockchain

](https://medium.com/blockchain?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## After the All Time High: Bitcoin’s record price brings renewed public
attention, and public…

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*vvAAm1DczYUooMuJcYXDEw.png)](/blockchain/after-
the-all-time-high-bitcoins-record-price-brings-renewed-public-attention-and-
public-4daad0b2fddd?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Unocoin
Growth](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Mu2L9-7r-v8sbVrBiyc35Q.png)](/@Unocoin_growth?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Unocoin Growth

](/@Unocoin_growth?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[Unocoin’s Blog

](https://medium.com/unocoin?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Impact of Forking on Cryptocurrency

![Impact of Forking on
Cryptocurrency](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*WtvaQU_6LRQoN3phtBo9tw.png)](/unocoin/impact-
of-forking-on-cryptocurrency-282638143c66?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Sanjay
Priyadarshi](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*XutiHXIrmXbyn2h1ss34TA.png)](/@sanjay-
priyadarshi?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

[Sanjay Priyadarshi

](/@sanjay-priyadarshi?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## 11 Bitcoin Terms Explained in Less Than 420 Characters Each

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*E7qhZzLjIBfRbafd)](/coinmonks/11-bitcoin-
terms-explained-in-less-than-420-characters-
each-d94632cd100a?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----79f87c6b295b--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
79f87c6b295b--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
79f87c6b295b--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
79f87c6b295b--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
79f87c6b295b--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----79f87c6b295b--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----79f87c6b295b--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fset-
protocol%2Fintroducing-the-defi-pulse-index-on-
tokensets-79f87c6b295b&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Anthony
Sassano](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*jdMf10Tdlr17rBVVQVyUbg.png)](/@AnthonySassano)

[

## Anthony Sassano

](/@AnthonySassano)

1.6K Followers

Marketing at <https://www.setprotocol.com/> | Co-Founder of
<https://ethhub.io> & Co-host of the Into the Ether podcast | Founder
<https://thedailygwei.substack.co>

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2Fc07a50d767be&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fset-
protocol%2Fintroducing-the-defi-pulse-index-on-
tokensets-79f87c6b295b&newsletterV3=473a5c521558&newsletterV3Id=c07a50d767be&user=Anthony+Sassano&userId=473a5c521558&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Hisham Pangcoga
Macabanding](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*FkZV8aJLYYUyq2Nff9_onA.png)](/@shamboy?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------87d45376_9150_4145_b5bf_1f257e19c6e9-------)

[Hisham Pangcoga Macabanding

](/@shamboy?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
87d45376_9150_4145_b5bf_1f257e19c6e9-------)

## Metrics to Use to Value Layer 1 Blockchains (and DeFi Protocols) for
Beginners

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*SOwXZY7gJIUxL04shC4i_A.jpeg)](/@shamboy/metrics-
to-use-to-value-layer-1-blockchains-and-defi-protocols-for-
newbies-9afdc711a76a?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
87d45376_9150_4145_b5bf_1f257e19c6e9-------)

[[![Ashvin
Nihalani](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*xTKLN9tlBcG0H3-HSe1VUg.jpeg)](/@ashvinnihalani?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------87d45376_9150_4145_b5bf_1f257e19c6e9-------)

[Ashvin Nihalani

](/@ashvinnihalani?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
87d45376_9150_4145_b5bf_1f257e19c6e9-------)

## 1inch: The Super Liquid DEX Aggregator

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*ebFlutok1w-elP2T)](/@ashvinnihalani/1inch-
the-super-liquid-dex-aggregator-1c8b63c27ca7?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------87d45376_9150_4145_b5bf_1f257e19c6e9-------)

[[![InsurAce.io
Protocol](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*WL_lRPE0gHHKs341mmlgfw.png)](/@insurace-
protocol?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
87d45376_9150_4145_b5bf_1f257e19c6e9-------)

[InsurAce.io Protocol

](/@insurace-protocol?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
87d45376_9150_4145_b5bf_1f257e19c6e9-------)

in

[InsurAce.io Blog

](https://medium.com/insurace?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------87d45376_9150_4145_b5bf_1f257e19c6e9-------)

## InsurAce.io to receive a development grant from Aurora to develop onto the
NEAR EVM ecosystem.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*ezkF9swuywtRXh5783_RPw.png)](/insurace/insurace-
io-to-receive-a-development-grant-from-aurora-to-develop-onto-the-near-evm-
ecosystem-22db44831e1?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
87d45376_9150_4145_b5bf_1f257e19c6e9-------)

[[![Dorcas
Nyamwaya](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*gjy-X0jfGj3zA7sE0XrYog.jpeg)](/@dorcasnyamwaya?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------87d45376_9150_4145_b5bf_1f257e19c6e9-------)

[Dorcas Nyamwaya

](/@dorcasnyamwaya?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
87d45376_9150_4145_b5bf_1f257e19c6e9-------)

in

[DeFI Crime

](https://medium.com/defi-crime?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------87d45376_9150_4145_b5bf_1f257e19c6e9-------)

## Deus Finance Dao Hack 2

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*NQ20GSWRxQHKnSbwE056YQ.png)](/defi-
crime/deus-finance-dao-hack-2-6d7b02ebcdf6?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------87d45376_9150_4145_b5bf_1f257e19c6e9-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

