[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/4392cf3f26d8&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![DMM
DAO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*-L0qPeSrInrhpfHy_fZvNg.png)](https://medium.com/dmm-
dao?source=post_page-----4392cf3f26d8--------------------------------)

Published in

[DMM DAO

](https://medium.com/dmm-dao?source=post_page-----
4392cf3f26d8--------------------------------)

[![Javier
Keough](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*YVbQv66nrI2TfLptDGdI1g.jpeg)](/@Javier_Keough?source=post_page
-----4392cf3f26d8--------------------------------)

[Javier Keough](/@Javier_Keough?source=post_page-----
4392cf3f26d8--------------------------------)

Follow

Sep 29, 2020

·

6 min read

# Introducing the First Affiliate Member and NFTs into the DMM DAO

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*eP3Ej-KqZRDMKYTl8NEN5g.png)

The DMM Foundation is proud to announce the first application to be an
affiliate member of the DMM DAO. [Qori
Capital,](https://qoricapital.com/?lang=en) who ran one of the largest hedge
funds in Peru, will be applying to take on the role of further introducing
assets into the DMM ecosystem as an affiliate member. Qori Capital will be in
charge of introducing machinery, real estate, and vehicles into the ecosystem.
We believe that this is an integral part of decentralizing the protocol, which
will move more control to the DMM DAO in the aspect of asset introduction.

 **Overview of Qori Capital:**

[Qori Capital](https://qoricapital.com/?lang=en), a financial management
company that ran the largest fund in Peru, has applied to become an affiliate
member of [DeFi Money Market (DMM)](https://defimoneymarket.com/). Qori
capital is a Peruvian private debt fund created as a result of the partnership
between QORI Capital (“QORI”) and Grupo Coril, which has had years of
experience in this field. The core investment team ran the largest fund in
Peru and managed a combined $1B+ USD through different asset-backed direct
debt operations. Given Qori Capital’s track record, we believe that they are a
great test case for the first affiliate member and will provide for further
diversification as a new non-US geography of assets in Peru. We believe Peru
is an optimal test case, as Peru’s development strategy is based on an economy
open to the world, with a high level of foreign trade as an instrument for
economic development and an open investment system with a favorable legal
framework for foreign investors. The overall economic climate in Peru has
grown in the last decade and will continue to grow, which will provide the
ecosystem with the ability to introduce enough assets as the protocol grows.
Qori capital will play a vital role in further decentralizing the ecosystem,
by shifting the DMM Foundation’s role in seeding the initial assets, to
creating a more decentralized matrix where any member of the DAO can stake
tokens to introduce assets into the ecosystem.

 **Principal & Affiliate Members in the DMM DAO:**

In the DMM Ecosystem, asset introduction works in two ways: It is broken down
by geography on the country level with certain requirements for DMG holdings
to be a DMG Principal Member or DMG Affiliate Member who can introduce assets
directly to the ecosystem. The main difference between principal and affiliate
members is that principal members get more priority and receive a higher
percent of the income production of the underlying assets — this is explained
in more detail later. In order to become a principal or affiliate member,
users must reserve a specific country block. Initially, the requirements to
reserve a country block will be lower, but as the ecosystem grows the
requirements will slowly increase. By owning a specific country block,
principal and affiliate members have the right to introduce assets (provided
you follow the framework and guidelines established by the DMM DAO). Principal
and affiliate members will also be able to charge small to medium enterprises
(SMEs) an origination fee to introduce assets into the DMM Ecosystem (DMME).
The origination fees are set by the principal member and those who wish to
onboard assets into the DMME — keep in mind, the DMM DAO is not involved in
setting these fees. The origination fees are paid in DMG, with a portion
burned, and are locked into a contract. Upon each payment from the servicer,
these payments associated with the underlying assets are then automatically
released to principal or affiliate members. Initially, principal members
receive 0.5% derived from the income production of the underlying assets,
while affiliates receive 0.25% derived income payment production. Inherently,
0.75% is garnered as a benefit in addition to origination or other fees. These
amounts are paid in the DMG governance token. We believe that as larger
institutions move into the DMME, these country blocks will increase
significantly in value. In essence, as more assets are introduced into each
country block the percentage allocated to principal & affiliate members will
increase and the total cost of reserving a block will also increase. Following
the introduction of Qori capital as an affiliate member, members of the DMM
DAO will also be able to reserve their own country blocks in the not so
distant future.

 **Qori Capital’s role as an Affiliate Member:**

By becoming the first affiliate member in the DMM DAO, Qori capital will be
tasked with onboarding $20,000,000 worth of assets, which will be composed of
real estate, machinery, and vehicles into the DMME. These assets will be made
verifiable on-chain by uploading a hash of the IPFS hosted documents and/or by
utilizing an asset-verification scheme where Chainlink oracles attest to asset
ownership. Qori Capital will be charged with paying 8.25% to the DMM DAO, with
6.25% going to the mToken holders and the overage being sent to a reserve
smart contract. The funds in the reserve contract can be called upon by the
DMM DAO to induce a token burn, further lowering the finite supply of DMG. In
order to streamline the transparency, the total value locked in the reserved
contracts and tokens staked by principal or affiliate members will be viewable
on our [Explorer page](https://explorer.defimoneymarket.com/) upon launch.
Since the DMME is still in its infancy, there will initially be no volume of
asset introduction qualifications for those who are principal or affiliate
members, to jumpstart the ecosystem. However, as the ecosystem grows,
guidelines will be set out with the main purpose being that no member is able
to “stall a market” by never introducing assets in a meaningful way. By
becoming the first affiliate member, Qori capital will lock up ~300,000 DMG
tokens at the current market price, which will be purchased on the open
market. Inherently, these DMG tokens will be taken out of the circulating
supply and will be used to mint a [non-fungible
token](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-fungible_token) (NFT) that represents
the underlying country block.

 **NFTs in the DMM Ecosystem:**

As the number of principal and affiliate members grows, we envision a market
will develop for the trading of these blocks. This will be done by creating
NFTs for each country block and principal or affiliate status. For an NFT to
be minted, the user who reserved the country block will have to lock their DMG
in the DMM DAO reserve smart contract, which will remove the corresponding
amount of DMG from the circulating supply. Since NFTs conform to the ERC-721
standard, they can’t be traded on ordinary DEXs or CEXs (decentralized or
centralized exchanges), so, we hope to seed a marketplace where these NFTs can
be traded between DMG holders, block holders, financial institutions,
governments, or anyone who has interest in developing the DMME globally or in
their specific country. This same process will be used for other countries. In
essence, similar to a franchise, they are purchasing the rights to introduce
assets into the DMME, further diminishing the availability of DMG. We envision
a future where country blocks are treated similarly to franchises and can be
easily traded on open exchanges. We plan on bootstrapping this process by
allowing users to reserve their own country blocks in the not so distant
future.

 **Why are these developments so important?**

At a large scale these country blocks will have substantial, beneficial
implications for the ecosystem and the underlying availability of DMG. Not
only will the tokens used to reserved country blocks be taken out of the
circulating supply, but, also, the excess revenue and origination fee from
these blocks will be used to burn DMG. In turn, this contributes to DMG’s
inherent deflationary nature and reduces the total finite supply. Already, we
have seen this happen at small scale (with our last burn of ~72,785.56 DMG
tokens). However, as the ecosystem garners more growth, the impact of these
burns will be much more frequent and larger.

Overall, this is an important step in growing the DMME. We hope that these
developments will help further the decentralization of the protocol, as the
DMM DAO takes an ever greater role. It is with optimism that the DMM DAO aims
to create an ecosystem that is free from fiat debasement, backed by real world
assets that are represented on chain, which provides consistent and stable
yield, and makes finance inclusive to all with the only requirement being an
internet connection!

 **About DMM**

DeFi Money Market (DMM) is an ecosystem built on the Ethereum blockchain that
bridges interest-generating real world assets into the Decentralized Finance
(DeFi) ecosystem in a transparent, trust-minimized, overcollateralized, and
permissionless manner.

[Website](https://defimoneymarket.com/) |
[mTokens](https://app.defimoneymarket.com/) |
[DAO](http://dao.defimoneymarket.com/) |
[Explorer](https://explorer.defimoneymarket.com/) |
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/DMMDAO) | [Discord](https://discord.gg/nTSgC9h)
| [Telegram](https://t.me/DmmOfficial) | [Github](https://github.com/defi-
money-market-ecosystem/protocol)

\--

\--

\--

## [More from DMM DAO](/dmm-dao?source=post_page-----
4392cf3f26d8--------------------------------)

DeFi Money Market DAO

[Read more from DMM DAO](/dmm-dao?source=post_page-----
4392cf3f26d8--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Reiner
Knapp](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*1mTmvz_BOvurrA32goDMRA.png)](/@reinknapp?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Reiner Knapp

](/@reinknapp?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## My Diamond Team … Passive Income of 1.5% Daily

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*t5mD8SNrFPAnclF3xBOImw.png)](/@reinknapp/my-
diamond-team-passive-income-
of-1-5-daily-b434fe34dc06?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Tradingpoolcoin2.0](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*4g7bEzVOmqtkHiRVEAYu5A.png)](/@tradingpoolcoin2.0?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Tradingpoolcoin2.0

](/@tradingpoolcoin2.0?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Return-Risk-Liquidity

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*UpmJfRFD86e7XUp2XW7JSQ.png)](/@tradingpoolcoin2.0/return-
risk-liquidity-8bedacd39d79?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Deniz Derin
ÖZER](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*r1QaXx3E4bHOxvRi)](/@denizdozer?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Deniz Derin ÖZER

](/@denizdozer?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Daily Crypto News | 19.05.2021

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*rUK203KGclYgyP6lWynW4w.jpeg)](/@denizdozer/daily-
crypto-news-19-05-2021-661414f5e9cf?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Jeremy
Hillpot](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*6C0orMj23oznDr84jrckaA.jpeg)](/@hillpot?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Jeremy Hillpot

](/@hillpot?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

in

[The Capital

](https://medium.com/the-capital?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Bitcoin’s Price History

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*oeOskDX1eafawHeKP_cKYA.jpeg)](/the-
capital/bitcoins-price-history-38064102c2b4?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[[![Hash
Rush](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*w7lTCvQtRIwQCLEXrqaxDw.png)](/@hash-
rush?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

[Hash Rush

](/@hash-rush?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Participating in the Hash Rush Pre-ICO in 3 Steps

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*lbPfdL5WAysEItwSWPZOwA.png)](/@hash-
rush/participating-in-the-hash-rush-pre-ico-
in-3-steps-41c54bffeec7?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![BitsTODAY](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*uW7vyAaZ3CDSuaDjVviyig.png)](/@bitstoday?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[BitsTODAY

](/@bitstoday?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Will BitClout be offering development grants? The community is ready.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*M8crO3bOvPJT_YzlPLpo7A.jpeg)](/@bitstoday/will-
bitclout-be-offering-development-grants-the-community-is-
ready-a006a58bcaaa?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Dan
Fisher](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*5KMZq5vAUQrqbqXcYp9y2g.jpeg)](/@Dan_Benchmark_DeFi?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Dan Fisher

](/@Dan_Benchmark_DeFi?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[BenchmarkProtocol

](https://medium.com/benchmarkprotocol?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Community Update — The Months Ahead

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*WyeSBVQuz_iIBm_g)](/benchmarkprotocol/community-
update-the-months-ahead-5a27ba35e747?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Dapp.com](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*1LWGbKCHgt92r7FQ5zxfcg.jpeg)](/@dappdotcom?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Dapp.com

](/@dappdotcom?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

in

[Dapp.com

](https://medium.com/dapp-com?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## How to “Mine Ethereum” and Earn 8% Interest?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*VMHAfXK9PgF0kieVBVBKXw.jpeg)](/dapp-
com/how-to-mine-ethereum-and-
earn-8-interest-73130c6d1466?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----4392cf3f26d8--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
4392cf3f26d8--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
4392cf3f26d8--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
4392cf3f26d8--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
4392cf3f26d8--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----4392cf3f26d8--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----4392cf3f26d8--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdmm-
dao%2Fintroducing-the-first-affiliate-member-and-nfts-into-the-dmm-
dao-4392cf3f26d8&source=post_page--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Javier
Keough](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*YVbQv66nrI2TfLptDGdI1g.jpeg)](/@Javier_Keough)

[

## Javier Keough

](/@Javier_Keough)

53 Followers

Head of Ecosystem Development @DMMDAO

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fusers%2F14acc5c7db26%2Flazily-enable-
writer-
subscription&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdmm-
dao%2Fintroducing-the-first-affiliate-member-and-nfts-into-the-dmm-
dao-4392cf3f26d8&user=Javier+Keough&userId=14acc5c7db26&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![CryptoNFT](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*G9lvgaTT4bbSEworjoN-0Q.jpeg)](/@admin_28817?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------a8346818_1179_49f8_ba2e_863f90bf4506-------)

[CryptoNFT

](/@admin_28817?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
a8346818_1179_49f8_ba2e_863f90bf4506-------)

## The New Era of Battle Engagement NFT. Giants Of Luminous is here!!!

](/@admin_28817/the-new-era-of-battle-engagement-nft-giants-of-luminous-is-
here-b7635b10a284?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
a8346818_1179_49f8_ba2e_863f90bf4506-------)

[[![Page
network](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*jsAzwB1M2uKf42ah4AAiwg.jpeg)](/@PAGE_TOKEN?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------a8346818_1179_49f8_ba2e_863f90bf4506-------)

[Page network

](/@PAGE_TOKEN?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
a8346818_1179_49f8_ba2e_863f90bf4506-------)

in

[Page_network

](https://medium.com/page-token?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------a8346818_1179_49f8_ba2e_863f90bf4506-------)

## The NFT Market

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*oq8ekvb8zXIOgCy_XAE6QA.png)](/page-
token/the-nft-market-58c2a2c0f0a?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------a8346818_1179_49f8_ba2e_863f90bf4506-------)

[[![George_V](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*iDsuBzFDV4mV9LurU0xvKA.png)](/@george_v?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------a8346818_1179_49f8_ba2e_863f90bf4506-------)

[George_V

](/@george_v?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
a8346818_1179_49f8_ba2e_863f90bf4506-------)

## NFTs: Ethereum or Elrond?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*OPW7q4F_dCNXdg4i)](/@george_v/nfts-
ethereum-or-elrond-a6a3ddfe9c2d?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------a8346818_1179_49f8_ba2e_863f90bf4506-------)

[[![Ignas](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*QeAwSyiZ2gWyraojOeuHwQ.jpeg)](/@ignas159?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------a8346818_1179_49f8_ba2e_863f90bf4506-------)

[Ignas

](/@ignas159?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
a8346818_1179_49f8_ba2e_863f90bf4506-------)

in

[bulldax.finance

](https://medium.com/bulldax-finance?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------a8346818_1179_49f8_ba2e_863f90bf4506-------)

## Economics of NFTs: Why We Pay Millions for a JPEG online?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*rP90kaleglSoY5E1sLUxQQ.png)](/bulldax-
finance/economics-of-nfts-why-we-pay-millions-for-a-jpeg-
online-1f00e86b5113?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
a8346818_1179_49f8_ba2e_863f90bf4506-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

