![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/its-easy-for-enterprises-to-get-started-with-orchid/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/its-easy-for-enterprises-to-get-started-with-orchid/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/its-easy-for-enterprises-to-get-started-with-orchid/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/its-easy-for-enterprises-to-get-started-with-orchid/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/its-easy-for-enterprises-to-get-started-with-orchid/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/its-easy-for-enterprises-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![It’s easy for enterprises to get started with
Orchid](/static/dd3ccbacb0d45476dceb2ff7749ed307/Orchid_BlogImage_Enterprise.jpg)

# It’s easy for enterprises to get started with Orchid

Oct 1, 2020  
  

Orchid's unique VPN marketplace offers a high level of Internet security. And
with more people than ever working remotely, the online privacy Orchid offers
has never been more important. This is as true for enterprises as for
individuals, and in some ways, Internet privacy is particularly critical for
businesses.

With large teams collaborating across different geographies, the difficulty of
conducting business -- particularly internationally -- is increased. Our own
users have been kind enough to share with us [some of the ways they are using
Orchid](/how-people-are-reclaiming-internet-freedom-from-dubai-to-ukraine-to-
venezuela/) to conduct important business in different parts of the world.
Their stories illustrate the diverse challenges organizations face as well as
some of the ways Orchid can make work easier and safer. With so many people
using personal and/or unsecured networks to do their jobs, Orchid's strong
privacy and security features make remote work more secure.

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

Enterprises require quick speeds and download times, and our latest product
updates have dramatically improved speeds for all users. Orchid is partnered
with many of the world's leading VPNs, including [LiquidVPN](/orchid-partners-
with-liquidvpn/), [PIA](/pia-bringing-trusted-private-bandwidth-to-orchid-
users/), [Tenta](https://tenta.com/), [Boleh](https://www.bolehvpn.net/), and
[VPNSecure](/orchid-partners-with-vpnsecure/), and allows users to configure
multiple "hops" between them for even greater privacy -- all without
sacrificing ease of use.

It's easy for enterprises to get set up with Orchid. An administrator simply
needs to create an Orchid account with enough OXT to buy bandwidth to support
everyone on the team. Since Orchid accounts can be shared with as many people
as needed, the admin can share this account with their team -- whether that's
two people, 20 people, or 50 people. As the team uses its bandwidth, the
administrator simply needs to "top up" the account with OXT, Orchid's digital
currency. Enterprise accounts can also be created and shared through a simple
two-step process using [in-app purchases](/orchid-launches-in-apple-app-
store/). This method makes setup seamless, as it doesn't require an admin to
obtain or transfer digital currency.

For details on which account to purchase and how Orchid could work for your
enterprise, [contact us](https://www.orchid.com/contact).

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [VPN](/tag/vpn/)
  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22It%E2%80%99s%20easy%20for%20enterprises%20to%20get%20started%20with%20Orchid%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fits-
easy-for-enterprises-to-get-started-with-orchid%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fits-
easy-for-enterprises-to-get-started-with-orchid%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fits-
easy-for-enterprises-to-get-started-with-orchid%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/what-does-a-vpn-hide/)

#### What does a VPN hide?

](/what-does-a-vpn-hide/)

Apr 15, 2021

](/what-is-split-tunneling/)

[

#### What is split tunneling?

](/what-is-split-tunneling/)

May 3, 2021

](/why-ordinary-people-are-turning-to-vpns/)

[

#### Why Ordinary People Are Turning to VPNs

](/why-ordinary-people-are-turning-to-vpns/)

Jul 14, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

