![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/ethereal-orchid-joint-announcement/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/ethereal-orchid-joint-announcement/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/ethereal-orchid-joint-announcement/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/ethereal-orchid-joint-announcement/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/ethereal-orchid-joint-announcement/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/ethereal-orchid-joint-announcement/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![It’s #DataPrivacyDay. Ethereal and Orchid are committed to realizing its
promise.](/static/4554c8b62c8f71849744222bf908edeb/Orchid_BlogImage_Ethereal.jpg)

# It’s #DataPrivacyDay. Ethereal and Orchid are committed to realizing its
promise.

Jan 28, 2020  
  

As we recognize Data Privacy Day this year, we’re excited to announce that
we’ve joined forces with Ethereal as their official privacy partner. This May
at the [Ethereal Summit](https://www.etherealsummit.com/) in New York, we’ll
be working with the Ethereal team to help attendees gain better digital
privacy tools and practices.

In Ethereal, we have a partner committed to furthering the important
conversation around privacy, and how it intersects with the blockchain and
decentralization movement. With a diverse set of voices—including artists,
startups, developers, entrepreneurs, and academics—Ethereal helps tell the
story of why decentralized technologies are important, focusing on societal
issues, core truths, and human impacts.

At Orchid, we’re committed to a new model of online interaction with a focus
on user privacy. We recently launched our privacy network—a decentralized
next-level VPN powered by digital currency—on Ethereum. Orchid is an Open
Source, peer-to-peer network that provides users with greater control of their
online privacy, and access to content on the Internet regardless of their
geographic location.

Thankfully, the number of voices calling for increased privacy is growing. For
over a decade, concerned citizens, technologists, academics, and entrepreneurs
have been recognizing Data Privacy Day to raise awareness in the mainstream.
In some sense, these efforts have found success: Internet users are more aware
of and concerned about their online data privacy than ever. Developers and
businesses alike are creating tools, facilitating discussions, and working
towards helping reclaim what's been lost- our online security and freedom.

But we also recognize that this awareness has been gained the hard way.
Concerns over online privacy have risen in large part due to scandals that
have illuminated the ubiquity and pervasiveness of data collection. People’s
privacy and security have been compromised by a combination of misaligned
incentives and misconduct.

Thankfully, despite entrenched resistance from those that profit from your
data, people around the world are working to create digital privacy solutions.
So, we look ahead with conviction on this Data Privacy Day: An international
effort to empower individuals and encourage businesses to respect privacy,
safeguard data, and enable trust.

The rise of blockchain and decentralized technologies provide us with an
avenue to help users reclaim their power over their data, and take back their
relationship with the Internet. That’s why Orchid is partnering with the
Ethereal Summit this May in New York: to bring you the ideas, people, and
projects attempting to disrupt the current model. We hope you’ll join us as we
explore the ways in which blockchain can offer a foundation for individuals
and communities to exercise self-determination and become stronger as a
result.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Partnerships](/tag/partnerships/)
  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22It%E2%80%99s%20%23DataPrivacyDay.%20Ethereal%20and%20Orchid%20are%20committed%20to%20realizing%20its%20promise.%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fethereal-
orchid-joint-announcement%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fethereal-
orchid-joint-announcement%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fethereal-
orchid-joint-announcement%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

](/orchid-expands-in-korea-as-oxt-is-listed-on-bithumb/)

[

#### Orchid expands in Korea as OXT is listed on Bithumb

](/orchid-expands-in-korea-as-oxt-is-listed-on-bithumb/)

Feb 22, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

