[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ 中文 ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [events](../../../blog/events)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Oct 17, 2020  

## Join us for Filecoin Liftoff on October 19-23 2020

The Filecoin Network is now LIVE! This marks the culmination of years of
innovation and hard work, and we thank everyone who dedicated their time,
ideas, and expertise to make Filecoin a reality. To read more about this
milestone, check our blog post on the launch
[here](https://filecoin.io/blog/mainnet-liftoff/).

### Join us for Filecoin Liftoff

Next week, let’s celebrate Filecoin’s launch together at [**Filecoin
Liftoff**](https://liftoff.filecoin.io/) **: a series of talks, panels, and
workshops curated by the web3 community to chart the network’s future**.
Registration is free, but required for attendance; we highly encourage you to
register and attend as many sessions as you can.

Filecoin Liftoff will be held from October 19-23. Each day will have a
different focus, from building on Filecoin to the future of the network, with
amazing sessions, speakers, and announcements planned throughout the week.

#### October 19th - All Systems Go

Join Juan Benet, Dan Boneh, Olaf Carson-Wee, and Marta Belcher to learn about
why Filecoin’s launch is a pivotal moment for the decentralized web.

#### October 20th - Mine

A series of talks, workshops, and panels on Filecoin mining. We’ll hear from
Filecoin’s top global miners at the “How I won Space Race” panel and learn how
you can get started mining on the Filecoin network with Benjamin Hoesjbo.

#### October 21st - Build

On Wednesday we’ll be talking about the full decentralized stack. ConsenSys
founder, Joe Lubin, and Juan Benet will kick off the day with a fireside chat
“Bridging Filecoin and Ethereum”, and we’ll hear from a series of teams and
developers building on the Filecoin network. We’ll also have some great talks
and workshops to help you get started developing on Filecoin or hone your
expertise if you’re already a seasoned pro.

#### October 22nd - Store

During these sessions, you’ll discover remarkable Filecoin content-hosting
tools. Some offer end-user asset storage, while others leverage immutability
to ensure that important data is preserved intact. Come listen to Internet
Archive founder Brewster Kahle discuss the importance of data preservation, or
watch a demo of Filecoin and Pinata to learn more about getting the best of
both worlds with hybrid Filecoin/IPFS data storage.

#### October 23rd - The Future

This is only the beginning for the Filecoin network. On Friday, you’ll have a
chance to learn more about the many possibilities that lie before us and chart
the future of the network together. We’ll be joined by lots of special guests
from the Filecoin Foundation, the Starling Project, the Blockchain
Association, and more.

### Come join us!

You can find the agenda [here](https://liftoff.filecoin.io/). If you’d like to
add your own event or celebration to the schedule then you can [submit it
here](https://filecoin-community.typeform.com/to/EYLmGgOr). There will also be
opportunities to connect and collaborate with the community. Stay tuned!
[Register now](https://liftoff.filecoin.io/) and we’ll see you there.

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You’ve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

