[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![Juan Benet, the creator of IPFS, joins the AKASHA Team as
Advisor](/static/e4cfa06ae4ac08acfdd1b0a138aa5ff0/2a43b/IPFS-background.jpg)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

## Juan Benet, the creator of IPFS, joins the AKASHA Team as Advisor

By [Mihai Alisie](/blog/author/mihai-alisie/)

·

May 31, 2016

> "The centralized ad-driven social networks are vulnerable and not focused on
> our rights. We need free, private, global communication! We need AKASHA!" \-
> Juan Benet*

We are thrilled to announce that [Juan Benet](https://twitter.com/juanbenet),
the creator of the [Inter-Planetary File System](https://ipfs.io/) (IPFS), is
joining the [AKASHA team](https://akasha.world/#team) as Advisor.

[ ![Juan Benet IPFS
AKASHA](/static/6379f1cb90c2c26efe985187e31f4ec8/c745a/Juan-Benet-HQ.jpg)
](/static/6379f1cb90c2c26efe985187e31f4ec8/c745a/Juan-Benet-HQ.jpg)

Juan will be in great company as he joins [Vitalik
Buterin](https://twitter.com/VitalikButerin), the creator of
[Ethereum](https://ethereum.org/), on our Advisory Board.

Juan created the [IPFS Project](https://ipfs.io/),
[Filecoin](http://filecoin.io/), and other protocols that can be found
[here](http://juan.benet.ai/). He is also the founder of [Protocol
Labs](http://ipn.io/), a company focused on improving how the Internet works.
Before IPFS and Protocol Labs, he studied Computer Science at Stanford
University.

The idea behind IPFS took shape in Juan's mind during 2014, while thinking of
ways to solve the numerous problems that plague data sharing today.

A few months later, IPFS was born by combining the great ideas behind Git,
BitTorrent, Kademlia, SFS, and the Web in the form of a distributed file
system that seeks to connect all computing devices with the same system of
files. In some ways, it is similar to the original aims of the Web, but IPFS
is more similar to a single BitTorrent swarm exchanging git objects.

Today, from a simple idea, IPFS is live with thousands of nodes running across
the world, has a big community of open-source contributors, and provides a
simple interface similar to the HTTP web. However, the big difference is that
permanence and versioning is built in. In other words, the "dream" of a
permanent web is here and rapidly iterating.

This is why it made perfect sense to integrate this groundbreaking technology
into AKASHA, as it provides a decentralized permanent data layer that works
nicely with Ethereum.

By fusing [IPFS](https://ipfs.io/) with [Ethereum](https://ethereum.org/), we
get the best of both worlds: thanks to IPFS, we have a way to permanently
store and distribute content in a peer to peer fashion on a global scale
without all the blockchain limitations, while the Ethereum blockchain is used
for micro-payments, strong identity, authentication, voting and verifiability.

For those that haven't dived into IPFS yet, watch this presentation that is
masterfully delivered by Juan, where he covers both the concept behind it and
the technical details:

Juan is now working relentlessly with the IPFS team on a [JavaScript
implementation](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs) which would make AKASHA,
among other things, accessible in a peer to peer fashion directly from classic
Web 2.0 browsers. Add all the cool things currently developed in the Ethereum
ecosystem from [BTCrelay](http://btcrelay.org/) to [payment
channels](http://www.arcturnus.com/ethereum-lightning-network-and-beyond/) to
[DAOs](https://daohub.org/) and you'll get a glimpse of the fascinating things
waiting to be explored.

With both Juan Benet and Vitalik Buterin at our side to advise us on the key
technologies used to make [AKASHA](https://akasha.world/) possible, we are
bound to create something truly amazing.

Welcome aboard Juan!

[News](/blog/category/news/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2016/05/31/juan-
benet-the-creator-of-ipfs-joins-akasha)

