[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Killing Crypto: Outlier Ventures' 2019 Predictions

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

[mc4wp_form id='4618']

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Jamie-Burke-Hi-
Res-150x150.png)

January 2019

Posted by

Jamie Burke

CEO and Founder

 ...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/jamie-burke/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/blog-
post-9.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/) [Lawrence Lundy
Joins Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/)

April 2016  

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/blog-
post-7.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-vc-to-
hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/) [Outlier
Ventures Becomes First VC To Hire ‘Head of Crypto-Economics’ With Appointment
of Eden Dhaliwal](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-
vc-to-hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/)

August 2017  

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Killing Crypto: Outlier Ventures' 2019 Predictions

Posted by Jamie Burke - January 2019

[
__](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://outlierventures.io/killing-
crypto-outlier-ventures-2019-predictions) [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://outlierventures.io/killing-
crypto-outlier-ventures-2019-predictions&title=Killing Crypto: Outlier
Ventures’ 2019 Predictions) [
__](https://twitter.com/share?url=https://outlierventures.io/killing-crypto-
outlier-ventures-2019-predictions&text=Killing Crypto: Outlier Ventures’ 2019
Predictions) [
__](https://telegram.me/share/url?url=https://outlierventures.io/killing-
crypto-outlier-ventures-2019-predictions&text=Killing Crypto: Outlier
Ventures’ 2019 Predictions)

![Killing Crypto: Outlier Ventures' 2019 Predictions Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/01/future_of_science_image.jpg)

**Foreword Jamie Burke & Lawrence Lundy-Bryan**

This time last year we predicted there needed to be a [crypto
winter](https://medium.com/outlier-ventures-io/cleaning-up-crypto-lets-get-
back-to-the-future-96753146b4cf), something we hoped to happen sooner rather
than later. As painful as it has been for everyone we believe it was the
medicine the industry needed to professionalise. There was too much hype with
too little value in the public market, something we had been talking about
since early 2017.

In 2019, we propose to kill the ‘crypto’ narrative and leave behind the
baggage of crypto twitter, ICOs, shitcoins, scams and crypto-pools. We think
this year is primarily going to be about ‘crossing the chasm’ as enterprise
and institutional capital become the dominant financiers bringing more rigour
and discipline to the industry. Initiatives that raised millions from retail
investors last year won’t make it past the first stage of institutional
diligence in 2019. As a consequence projects will raise more private money and
stay private for longer to build out their networks. This will remove a lot of
the execution risk inherent in early-stage venture from public markets but it
will also force the focus from ideals and visions to code and shipping.

As regulatory activity increases, exchanges are already cleaning up their act
and integrating into the existing financial system. This will remove wash
trading and other bad behaviours and see markets stabilise. Serious projects
that didn't ICO last year will launch networks with real users rather than as
a rushed crowdfunding campaign.

So we think there is a bullish case to be made for 2019. Not because there
will be a full market recovery but because there will be green shoots that
emerge (some of which we list here in our [2018 end of year
report](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/01/State_Of_Blockchains_2019.pdf)) which will drive
sustainable growth as market fundamentals finally emerge.



# **11 Predictions from Outlier Ventures**

We have curated 11 predictions from the Outlier Ventures partnership, let us
know what you think on Twitter [@OVioHQ](https://twitter.com/oviohq)



**1/ Killing Crypto -** Following the narrative ‘the crypto only fund’ is
dead. Money will increasingly go to strategic, professional investors placing
tokens and blockchain within a broader emerging technology landscape.

_Prediction: There will be less than 50 VC funds with over $30m USD AUM
referring to themselves as a ‘crypto fund’ globally by EOY_



**2/ DeFi / Open Finance Narrative Falls Short - **This is a dominant
narrative out of the US at the moment. Projects like Dharma, Set Protocol,
WalletConnect, DYDX, Wyre, and others are shipping at a rate of knots, but
it’s hard to see who the customer is for these products beyond the very early
pioneers and innovators deep in the crypto space. Expect to see lots of
interesting products around leverage, margin, and lending, but it’s hard to
see real users participating en mass especially ‘the so-called un-banked’.
Whilst it’s something we believe is a worthy cause actually getting these
things to market and iterating, through all the regulatory hurdles and in a
way a consumer can understand is a multi-year project. However, traction may
be made in emerging markets like Africa.

_Prediction: DeFi will lead in transaction count this year, however, there
will be no more than 10m users of both consumer-facing and institution-facing
DeFi in the West in 2019_



**3/ Security Tokens -** Lots of infrastructure being built but no real market
yet. Due to the high regulatory hurdles and costs associated with scaling
internationally, we expect to see a few players like Harbour, Abacus and
Republic build out a full integrated suite of services across issuance,
secondary markets, and trading. Expect to hear more about the ‘Coinbase for
STOs’ as the year ends.

_Prediction: STO daily volumes won’t go above $50m USD at any point in 2019._



**4/ On-chain governance - **We will begin to move away from the idea of fully
‘on-chain governance’ as the trade-offs around technical risk and speed of
decision-making become painfully obvious. The motivation behind engaging a
broader set of network participants to shape the direction of the network is a
noble one and indeed should be a guiding principle for every public network.
But it should be a vision to achieve, but in the meantime, the network needs
to be built, shipped and grown. With VC money we expect lean startup thinking
and therefore off-chain governance to dominate 2019.

_Prediction: There is no on-chain governance protocol in top 25 by market
capitalization by EOY_



**5/ Mo data , mo (real world) problems.** Big (unusable) data is the problem
most companies have today. Protocols that speak to the Data and AI narrative
will dominate and achieve the most traction. Look at our Convergence Stack,
it’s no coincidence.

_Prediction: 1 tokenised data marketplace protocol enters top 10 by market
capitalization by EOY_



**6/ Beyond wallets.** Staking goes retail as Coinbase, Circle, and maybe even
Revolut offer staking accounts to customers. Wallet providers are the gateway
to the digital asset economy and will increasingly look for ways to drive
engagement in the bear market. Expect more assets to be available including
NFTs, but the concept of ‘income-generating assets’ by participating in the
network will enter public consciousness and lead to positive discussions of
value in tokens ‘beyond speculation’.

_Prediction: Coinbase, Circle, or Revolut offer ‘staking’ or another name for
income-generating assets directly in-wallet_



**7/ Crossing the chasm with Web 2.5 not Web 3.0** - The blockchain industry
took a big ambitious moon shot at realising a highly decentralised and
automated Web 3.0 over the last few years. A lot of great stuff was built and
lessons learnt but it’s safe to say we overshot and failed to deliver
something that could be adopted beyond a few narrow use-cases. 2019 is going
to see much more pragmatism to deliver performance requirements of millions
and billions of customers leading to significant concessions to the level of
decentralisation for consensus formation.

_Prediction_ : This is a tough one. We have been trying to quantify this
‘significant concessions to decentralisation’ point in some way. Is there a
canonical End of Year ‘Top Stories’ list, if so, we would want to say "50% of
that list will make some significant concession on decentralisation". We
welcome ideas on how to quantify this.



**8/ The interoperability story** - We are likely to see a movement away from
traditional virtual machine architecture in favour of the open standard
WebAssembly (WASM). As a universal compile target that enables developers to
write smart contracts in a variety of languages, including C/C++, Go, Rust and
Typescript, among others. WASM also allows for running untrusted high-
performance code in a browser. Use of the standard will make blockchains more
inter- and intra-operable, improve performance, allow for stronger claims
about security and potentially enable users to run nodes in-browser.

It is already possible to deploy WASM contracts on the Ethereum Kovan Testnet.
Support for WebAssembly in the blockchain industry is being spearheaded by
Ethereum 2.0’s EWASM project and Parity, and may prove one of the most
significant steps in attracting developers to the blockchain space.

_Prediction: Ethereum 2 Phase 1 is WASM compile target OR 3 of top 10 by
market capitalization using WASM by EOY_



**9/ Enterprise adoption needs enterprise chains -** We will see some emerging
chains offer a compelling proposition to enterprises that have identified use
cases for which DLT makes sense but have no intention of running their own
nodes or hiring a team to integrate into public ledgers. Blockchain-as-a-
service (Baas) providers Interstellar, Kaleido, and Amazon’s QLDB spring to
mind, but there will be others that bring the performance, scalability,
reliability and availability required for production-scale workloads.

_Prediction: $1bn USD BaaS market by revenues by EOY_



**10/ Bluechip emerges -** Venture capital investments have begun
concentrating increasingly in equity follow-on rounds. A total of over $550
million was raised through 147 deals in the last quarter of 2018, but roughly
70% of it was captured by just 20 deals. An emergent trend has been to invest
large sums into late stage ventures that have demonstrated traction and some
sort of product-market fit. We expect to see more money consolidating around a
few clear winners in different segments of the market.

_Prediction: Combined value of private top 5 crypto ‘blue-chip’ companies is
$25 billion USD by EOY_



**11/ Year of the BATs FAANG** - Let’s go out on a big one. There is going to
be increasing innovation and adoption across the blue chip tech stock of the
US and Asia.

_Prediction: 1bn new users onboarded into ‘crypto’ via one of Whatsapp,
Facebook Messenger, or WeChat despite Telegram_

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

