![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/kraken-listing-accelerates-orchids-recent-momentum/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/kraken-listing-accelerates-orchids-recent-momentum/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/kraken-listing-accelerates-orchids-recent-momentum/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/kraken-listing-accelerates-orchids-recent-momentum/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/kraken-listing-accelerates-orchids-recent-momentum/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/kraken-listing-accelerates-orchids-recent-momentum/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Kraken listing accelerates Orchid’s recent
momentum](/static/737c9cebcc8f88f0ec8bea373df7cfda/Orchid_BlogImage_Kraken.jpg)

# Kraken listing accelerates Orchid’s recent momentum

Jun 1, 2020  
  

[Kraken](https://www.kraken.com/), one of the largest and most respected
crypto trading platforms [with over 4 million
users](https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/kraken#section-overview), will
list OXT as of Tuesday, June 2. Kraken is consistently rated as one of the
best and most secure cryptocurrency exchanges, and offers one of the largest
selections of coins currently available.

New Orchid users can open an account by purchasing at least $4 in OXT and $1
of ETH on Kraken. Once the account is created, a shareable QR code will appear
that contains account credentials. Anyone can copy or scan that account into
the app for a simple, one-step setup.

Dr. Steven Waterhouse, Orchid’s Co-Founder and CEO said: “Kraken is widely
considered one of the crypto industry’s top exchanges. Their decision to list
OXT is a vote of confidence for Orchid and our vision for a safe, open
Internet. We are excited to welcome members of the Kraken community into our
own.”

Orchid’s unique VPN marketplace uses a robust system of incentives to match
supply with demand and ensure ample bandwidth is available. Users use OXT to
fund their account, and can then purchase VPN service on a pay-as-you-go
basis.

[Download the Orchid app](https://www.orchid.com/download) to start exploring
the Internet freely.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [Partnerships](/tag/partnerships/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Kraken%20listing%20accelerates%20Orchid%E2%80%99s%20recent%20momentum%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fkraken-
listing-accelerates-orchids-recent-momentum%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fkraken-
listing-accelerates-orchids-recent-momentum%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fkraken-
listing-accelerates-orchids-recent-momentum%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

[

#### OXT is Listed on Vauld

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

Jan 14, 2022

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

