![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/latin-america-looks-to-blockchain-to-improve-human-rights/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/latin-america-looks-to-blockchain-to-improve-human-rights/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/latin-america-looks-to-blockchain-to-improve-human-rights/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/latin-america-looks-to-blockchain-to-improve-human-rights/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/latin-america-looks-to-blockchain-to-improve-human-rights/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/latin-america-looks-to-blockchain-to-improve-human-rights/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Latin America Looks to Blockchain to Improve Human Rights, Reporter
Says](/static/3ff62c7a94a696931924e66bf36a5665/Orchid_BlogImage_FErazo.jpg)

# Latin America Looks to Blockchain to Improve Human Rights, Reporter Says

Nov 2, 2020  
  

![](/img/podcast-bunny.svg)

 **Follow the White Rabbit podcast**[Start
Listening](https://www.orchid.com/podcast/episode-21-felipe-erazo)

Felipe Erazo is an investigative journalist who researched the disappearance
of 65,000 people during decades of civil war in his home country of Colombia.
Now he specializes in reporting on blockchain and cryptocurrencies for
[Cointelegraph](https://cointelegraph.com/authors/felipe-erazo) and believes
these technological innovations hold the key to improving human rights across
Latin America.

Felipe felt the brunt of Colombia's war himself when a guerrilla group sought
to recruit his elder brother, who was only 10 at the time, into their army in
a remote southern area of the country. His mother resisted and faced two
attempted assaults against her before she took the decision to flee the
region.

Despite a peace accord forged in recent years, about 150 community leaders
have been murdered in the South American country's ongoing violence, Felipe
said on the latest episode of the [Follow the White
Rabbit](https://www.orchid.com/podcast/episode-21-felipe-erazo) podcast.

That is why he says nascent projects in Colombia are important as they look to
address human rights issues by using blockchain. Felipe highlighted a plan to
create a censorship-resistant micro-blogging platform that would allow victims
to report abuses in remote, rural areas of the country where there are seldom
government officials. The platform also hopes to overcome a major deterrent to
Colombians reporting crimes. Felipe described how the police allegedly leak
accusations to the very perpetrators who can then exact revenge on the victims
for reporting a crime.

> "In Colombia, we face the huge problem of self-censorship. Warning about
> violations of human rights in remote areas is unprotected but (the platform)
> can guarantee your anonymity," he said.

Felipe has years of experience working as a freelance writer and foreign
exchange currency analyst, at several forex broker firms and media outlets
around the world. His work, especially looking into cybersecurity and
financial systems, led him to explore cryptocurrencies. Since 2015, he has
seen how these alternatives to fiat currencies can address perennial problems
in Latin America where adoption is high in ailing economies such as Venezuela
and Argentina.

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

Oil-dependent Colombia has suffered volatility in the peso currency and has a
banking system that only offers credit at high interest rates. This has driven
many of Felipe's compatriots to seek out cryptocurrencies, he said.

> "Cryptocurrency is no longer the future. It's the present," he said.

The greater awareness is also leading to political pressure. With the Covid
pandemic crushing the economy, calls have become louder in Congress for
payment distributions to be implemented with blockchain, Felipe added.

"This is why I fell in love with blockchain," he said. "You can talk about it
in the context of how to contain the pandemic, how to save your country's
economy and how to save your own money in the form of cryptocurrency."

To hear more about the breakthrough technology's impact on Latin America's
human rights, follow us down the rabbit hole: [listen to the conversation
here](https://www.orchid.com/podcast) or on your favorite streaming service.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Decentralization](/tag/decentralization/)
  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Latin%20America%20Looks%20to%20Blockchain%20to%20Improve%20Human%20Rights%2C%20Reporter%20Says%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Flatin-
america-looks-to-blockchain-to-improve-human-rights%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Flatin-
america-looks-to-blockchain-to-improve-human-rights%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Flatin-
america-looks-to-blockchain-to-improve-human-rights%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/meet-orchid-virtually-at-ethdenver-2021/)

#### Meet Orchid (virtually) at ETHDenver 2021

](/meet-orchid-virtually-at-ethdenver-2021/)

Feb 4, 2021

](/joe-toscano-on-fighting-big-tech-bias-with-data-science/)

[

#### Joe Toscano on Fighting Big Tech Bias With Data Science

](/joe-toscano-on-fighting-big-tech-bias-with-data-science/)

Feb 8, 2021

](/should-you-leave-your-vpn-on-all-the-time/)

[

#### Should you leave your VPN on all the time?

](/should-you-leave-your-vpn-on-all-the-time/)

Feb 10, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

