[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Launching the Base Camp decentralised tech accelerator

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Launching the Base Camp decentralised tech accelerator

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/ov_matt-150x150.jpg)

July 2019

Posted by

Matt Law

Board Member

At Outlier Ventures Matt partners with talented founders building the next
generation of internet services working across their investing thesis of the
Convergence of emerging technology with decentralised & distributed computing,
AI, and IoT. Matt is in the investment committee at the firm, and launched
their deep tech accelerator program. Prior to that Matt worked for many years
in marketing, branding and product development, growing a number of
independent companies to scale and profitability....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1278)

# Are you building the next big thing for the open data economy?

## Starting September 2019, Outlier Ventures are recruiting, financing, and
providing a launchpad for pre-seed projects, recruitment is open for teams
wishing to apply until August 15th.

Please visit [our application form](https://www.f6s.com/basecamplondon/apply)
on the [F6S.com](https://www.f6s.com/) site to create a profile.

Posted by Matt Law - July 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/ov_matt-150x150.jpg)

July 2019

Posted by

Matt Law

Board Member

At Outlier Ventures Matt partners with talented founders building the next
generation of internet services working across their investing thesis of the
Convergence of emerging technology with decentralised & distributed computing,
AI, and IoT. Matt is in the investment committee at the firm, and launched
their deep tech accelerator program. Prior to that Matt worked for many years
in marketing, branding and product development, growing a number of
independent companies to scale and profitability....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1278)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

## Introducing Base Camp Accelerator: For three months pre-seed projects can
join Outlier Ventures in a unique Convergence Accelerator programme ‘Base
Camp’ to define and build their project alongside experts, mentors, ecosystem,
and leading minds of web 3.0.

We are focused on building out our vision of what is necessary for web 3.0 to
be successful - “[The Convergence
Stack](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-convergence-stack/)” a further
refinement of our thesis anticipating the convergence of blockchains with IoT,
AI and eventually robotics.

We are already supporting projects across the stack, including Imperial
College London, Smart Dubai, Deutsche Telekom, IOTA, Fetch.AI, and Sovrin, but
there a number of areas that are that we note are underserved: learning,
storage, networking, middleware and user experience. Although we are
interested in applications from all areas of the Stack, we are particularly
interested in these areas.

### Personalised program to accelerate fundamental innovations

Leveraging the combined resources of our tried and tested venture platform we
will add measurable value where each team needs it most. This is a bespoke
solution for accelerating the billion-dollar token networks and
transformational web 3.0 businesses of tomorrow.

This program will provide clarity on your pitch, positioning, and have
developed traction in your product to be in the best possible shape to secure
your first seed round of funding. This is a unique opportunity to get inside
access to the industry and build your venture.

### Why is Outlier Ventures the right early-stage investor?

Outlier Ventures is a venture platform designed to support decentralised
projects to design, build, and scale at every stage of their development. With
30 staff and partners across Europe, USA, and Asia dedicated to building an
open data economy

We provide early-stage funding, as well as providing support via
relationships, introductions, and access to specialists from across the
venture platform. We have incubates and supported leading web 3.0 teams, and
can bring a powerhouse of support to ventures building web 3.0 infrastructure.

### Base Camp

From September 2019 until December 2019, the team at Outlier Ventures will
provide funding, coaching, resources, connections, and ecosystem. In exchange,
we ask for 6% of equity, and 6% of any future token supply, and the option to
be the first money into any subsequent fundraising round.

  * **Funding:** Selected founding teams will receive £35,000 in immediate investment, and up to £200,000 in total funding
  * **Coaching:** We provide critical in-house mentorship that will turn your decentralised concept into a fundable project.
  * **Resources:** Outlier Ventures will provide incubation space, hub services and valuable domain expertise.
  * **Connections:** Our global network with investors, exchanges, development talent and others, will expand and enable your future network. 
  * **Ecosystem:** Access to The Convergence Ecosystem will bring corporate, academic and blockchain-based relationships within arm’s reach.

### Who we are looking for: Leaders and teams with concepts in the
decentralised space that fit our vision of the future web

At Outlier Ventures we are interested in leaders and founders who want to
build an open data economy. Possible a small team with both technical and
business expertise that may have raised a small amount of money before, and
are looking for your next step to accelerate your proposition.

We are particularly looking for projects that fit into our investment and
advisory thesis The Convergence Stack. We believe that there is a new emerging
web paradigm that will be open-source, decentralised and in the end will be
more equitable. Part of the stack is a set of hardware technologies, software
technologies, networking and applications that all together are forming a more
accessible and secure web.

However, we want to make sure that this web is designed and built by people
with diverse backgrounds and experiences to ensure the future web is inclusive
and works for all.

### The Convergence Stack

  
The opportunities we are looking for lie in the following areas of [The
Convergence Stack](https://outlierventures.io/the-convergence-stack/):

  * **Learning** : Today machine learning is extremely concentrated. Data, algorithms, and trained models are owned by a select few global Internet giants. Techniques like federated learning, differential privacy, homomorphic encryption, and tokenization enables us to build secure, privacy-preserving, and collectively-owned machine learning. There is an opportunity to create software for an AI economy that supports a more equitable data economy.
  * **Storage** : It refers to how and where information is stored and the rules governing how it can be accessed. Instead of data being stored in the ‘cloud’ on the servers of a select few companies, new storage architecture aims to store data on peer-to-peer decentralised networks. We think the introduction of price and market dynamics for storage opens up a whole new innovation area for edge software that is only just being explored.
  * **Networking** : We need to make sure telecommunications networks do not become a point of trust in the convergence stack. With open-source hardware projects working on networking equipment, the software that runs on the equipment in the next component that needs to be decentralized. Software-defined networking (SDN) and network function virtualization (NFV) are making networks more flexible and configurable. We want to support projects that are working to deliver networking software is both open-source and cryptographically secure.
  * **Middleware** : A bundle of APIs sitting below the interface layer providing services to developers to make it easier and faster to deliver applications and marketplaces. Middleware in this context is a coordination mechanism. If organisations are a collection of people bundled to solve a customer problem, middleware is a collection of APIs bundled to solve application-specific software problems. This turns low-level generalized protocols into application-specific tools. We want to support projects that make it easy to deliver new market solutions utilising the lower level protocols and software in the stack for things like 3d printing and robotics.
  * **User experience** : This refers to a range of interfaces that make interacting with decentralized protocols and technologies more convenient and intuitive. UX includes things like browsers and mobile apps that dominated Web1 and Web2 but also emerging interfaces that will become more important such as augmented reality (AR), virtual reality (VR), voice interfaces (VUI), conversational interfaces (CUIs) and NFC tags. We think there is a huge opportunity for startups to onboard billions of Internet users with well-designed experiences to make interacting with blockchains, tokens and smart contracts not just easier but delightful.

### How our Base Camp works?

To find out how Base Camp works and its different stages such as selection
process, on-boarding, idea refinement, product development, elective content,
fundraising, and aftercare, please visit our[ Base Camp launch
page](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)

### How can you apply for Base Camp?

We are working with [F6S.com](https://www.f6s.com/) for the accelerator
application process. Please visit [our application
form](https://www.f6s.com/basecamplondon/apply) on their site and create a
profile.

Please note the accelerator is based in London, UK, and you will need to be
physically present in London during September - December this year.

![Launching the Base Camp decentralised tech accelerator Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/07/2048_1024_003-1-1024x512.jpg)

_This article is for information purposes only and does not constitute
investment advice. This article does not amount to an invitation or inducement
to buy or sell an investment nor does it solicit any such offer or invitation
in any jurisdiction._

_In all cases, readers should conduct their own investigation and analysis of
the data in the article. All statements of opinion and/or belief contained in
this article and all views expressed and all projections, forecasts or
statements relating to expectations regarding future events represent Outlier
Ventures Operation Limited own assessment and interpretation of information
available as at the date of this article._

___No responsibility or liability is accepted by Outlier Ventures Operations
Limited or Sapia Partners LLP for reliance on the contents of this article._

_Outlier Ventures is an Appointed Representative of Sapia Partners LLP, a firm
authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)._

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

