[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Launching Diffusion Digital: virtual event and new Web 3 Founders podcast
announced

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Launching Diffusion Digital: virtual event and new Web 3 Founders podcast
announced

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Jamie-Burke-Hi-
Res-150x150.png)

May 2020

Posted by

Jamie Burke

CEO and Founder

 ...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/jamie-burke/)

## We are in the middle of an exciting new phase of the Web, increasingly
referred to as Web 3. One distinct from and disruptive to the current internet
and computing paradigm that is dominated by a handful of web platforms. But if
this is true why does the internet still look the same as it has for the last
decade, its problems seemingly getting worse and why are we stuck repeating
the same old conversations around privacy and security, centralised vs
decentralised solutions? The problem is the ‘Web 3 industry’ is still too
fragmented and insular, with too few entrepreneurs, let alone developers, that
understand how its technologies can both disrupt, transform and most
importantly enable entirely new markets.

Posted by Jamie Burke - May 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Jamie-Burke-Hi-
Res-150x150.png)

May 2020

Posted by

Jamie Burke

CEO and Founder

 ...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/jamie-burke/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/asm-and-ov-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-asm/) [Why we
invested in Altered State Machine (ASM)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-
invested-in-asm/)

April 2022  
Jamie Burke

[ ![OutlierVenturesInvestsinLumerin](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/03/why-we-invested-in-lumerin-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-lumerin/) [Why
we invested in Lumerin](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-
lumerin/)

March 2022  
Jamie Burke

Outlier Ventures, Europe’s award winning blockchain accelerator, have long
advocated Web 3 is more than just Bitcoin and crypto-currencies. It is instead
about the convergence of blockchain technologies with Big Data and AI and the
collaboration of tens if not hundreds of foundational protocols and open
source initiatives. Their passionate belief being only together they form a
new technology stack, that enables more truly peer-to-peer systems and a new
digital economy to burst free from data monopolies and their silos.

The successful diffusion of these innovations and their mainstream adoption
have never been more important as we enter the strange and uncharted waters of
the Covid pandemic, deepening debates around the role of Big Tech in society,
their solutions and the interplay with regulators and governments with false
trade-offs between privacy vs utility?

To meet this challenge Outlier with their community of technologists,
founders, venture capitalists and policy makers have been building a platform
of events and content called Diffusion to onboard new developers and
entrepreneurs into the space and address pressing problems around usability
and interoperability.

### **Diffusion 2020 Digital - May 28th**

Building on the success of their 2019
[Diffusion](https://player.vimeo.com/video/374439423?dnt=1&app_id=122963)
Conference which hosted 600 attendees in Berlin, and reached over 3 million
people online, Outlier Ventures will run a virtual free one day event on May
28th on the Crowdcast Platform
[https://www.crowdcast.io/e/diffusion2020](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/diffusion2020)

The focus of the event is to explore a pragmatic pathway from Web 2 to Web 3,
bringing together different communities in the ecosystem to participate in
talks and panel discussions over the course of the day featuring industry
leaders from:

_Parity, Agoric, Tendermint, Fenbushi, QTUM, Evernym / Sovrin, Chainlink,
Hyperledger, Fetch.ai, Cosmos and Ocean Protocol to name a few._

Sign up: [https://diffusion.events/](https://diffusion.events/)

### **Founders of Web 3 Podcast Series - May 12th, 2020**

In parallel, this week Outlier launches a weekly podcast series on itunes
called [‘Founders of Web 3’](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/founders-
of-web-3/id1511782129) hosted by Founder & CEO Jamie Burke who provides
insightful interviews with the founders and entrepreneurs, their investors and
the policymakers from across their network that are shaping Web 3.

With already over 25 shows recorded, the series will launch with an initial 8
episodes including:

_CZ of Binance, Muneeb Ali of Blockstack, Brock Pierce of Block One, David
Rutter of R3, Rene Reinsberg of Celo, Can Kisagun of Enigma, Illia Polosukhin
of NEAR, Eyal Hertzog of Bancor._

The show will uniquely focus on their intimate journey as founders exploring
the nuances and challenges of being an innovator and entrepreneur in Web 3 and
inspiring insights into their motivations and purpose.

  1. [Blitzscaling In Web 3](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/founders-of-web-3/id1511782129?i=1000473671873), CZ of Binance
  2. [Building a Web 3 Stack From Scratch](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/founders-of-web-3/id1511782129?i=1000473941626), Muneeb Ali of Blockstack
  3. [Timing Innovation in Web 3](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/founders-of-web-3/id1511782129?i=1000473941622), Brock Pierce of Block One
  4. [Scaling a Web 2.5 Unicorn For Enterprise](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/founders-of-web-3/id1511782129?i=1000473941620), David Rutter of R3
  5. [Finding Purpose in Web 3](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/founders-of-web-3/id1511782129?i=1000473941623), Rene Reinsberg of Celo
  6. [Privacy & Collaborative Learning in Web 3](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/founders-of-web-3/id1511782129?i=1000473941621), Can Kisagun of Enigma
  7. [Onboarding The 99% of Developers Into Web 3](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/founders-of-web-3/id1511782129?i=1000473941624), Illia Polosukhin of NEAR
  8. [Long-Tail Economics & Mainstreaming Web 3](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/founders-of-web-3/id1511782129?i=1000473941625), Eyal Hertzog of Bancor

After the first 8 days of launch a new episode will released near daily for
the rest of the year including the likes of Brendan Eichman, Founder of Brave;
Peteris Zilgalvis, Head of Digital Single Market & Blockchain European
Commission; and others such as Kyle Samani of Multicoin Capital; and Jake
Brukhman of Coinfund.

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

