[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Lawrence Lundy Joins Outlier Ventures

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

[mc4wp_form id='4618']

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/blog-
post-7.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-vc-to-
hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/) [Outlier
Ventures Becomes First VC To Hire ‘Head of Crypto-Economics’ With Appointment
of Eden Dhaliwal](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-
vc-to-hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/)

August 2017  

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/digital-
identity-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-backs-
evernym-to-bring-the-world-true-self-sovereign-identity/) [Outlier Ventures
backs Evernym to bring the world true self-sovereign
identity](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-backs-evernym-to-bring-
the-world-true-self-sovereign-identity/)

October 2017  

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Lawrence Lundy Joins Outlier Ventures

Posted by Lawrence Lundy Joins Outlier Ventures - April 2016

[
__](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-
lundy-joins) [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-
lundy-joins&title=Lawrence Lundy Joins Outlier Ventures) [
__](https://twitter.com/share?url=https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-
joins&text=Lawrence Lundy Joins Outlier Ventures) [
__](https://telegram.me/share/url?url=https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-
lundy-joins&text=Lawrence Lundy Joins Outlier Ventures)

Blockchains are not just the next growth market or investment opportunity;
they are the most significant democratising force in history. With this is
mind, I am joining Outlier Ventures to head up research and partnerships. I
will split my time between providing research to our portfolio companies and
exploring new investment opportunities and venture partnerships on behalf of
our fund, Outlier Capital LLP.

I will work with our existing portfolio companies to help them build
sustainable and profitable businesses.
[MoneyCircles.com](http://moneycircles.com/) is a building social banking
platform on the Blockchain. [Buyco.io](http://buyco.io/) is exploring
decentralised collective procurement.
[BlockStars.io](https://www.blockstars.io/) offers blockchain consultancy and
[AssetCha.in](http://www.assetcha.in/) is securing valuables on the
blockchain.

I leave Frost & Sullivan, a global research and consulting company, after
three years as the strategy consultant in the digital transformation team. I
helped companies like Amadeus, Shell, Huawei, and Intel to assess the impact
of emerging technologies, validate opportunities in current and adjacent
markets and create marketing strategies.

After working across many industries, it became increasingly clear that the
macro decentralisation trend is reshaping every company and industry.
Decentralisation is the framework I use to explore seemingly disparate trends
such as the Internet of Things (IoT), 3D Printing, Drones, Deep learning,
reinforcement learning and, most fundamentally, blockchains. I published
numerous reports at Frost & Sullivan investigating all of these technologies
and their impact on industries including agriculture, healthcare, and
financial services.

My thesis is that blockchains will be the data management layer in the
technology stack that secures and enables IoT to scale, and provides the
platform for artificial intelligence to be accessible and to benefit society
broadly. Without blockchains, IoT will be insecure and data will be owned,
controlled and ultimately locked down by the companies that own the platforms.
With tech platforms moving into connected cars, healthcare and education, this
just isn’t a case of having all your emails with one provider. A company will
know your genomic data, health records, sleeping habits and educational
attainment. We must make sure we as a society don’t allow all of that data to
be owned and controlled by a single company.

Even more dangerously, the benefits of artificial intelligence will accrue to
those Internet-scale companies such as Google, Facebook and Baidu that have
the most data to feed their deep learning models. As data network effects
kick-in, these companies will collect, retain and leverage proprietary data
into ever greater economic and social power through their AIs. Blockchains, as
an open-source shared data management tool, has the potential to provide a
global incredibly large free-to-access data source for everybody in the world
to build AI.

Without blockchains, the era of connected devices and artificial intelligence
will further erode privacy and exacerbate societal and economic inequality. I
believe blockchains are the single most significant technological development
since the Internet, and together with artificial intelligence, will shape our
society and economy over the next 25 years.

At Outlier Ventures we want to work with any entrepreneur, investor or
corporate venturing arm that believes in blockchains as much as we do. If you
are interested in working with us or want to chat, slide into my DMs
[@lawrencelundy](http://www.twitter.com/@lawrencelundy), email me at
lawrence@outlierventures.io, or connect with me on
[Linkedin](https://uk.linkedin.com/in/lawrencelundy)[  
](http://ov.localhost/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/blockchain-pic.png)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

