![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/ledger-adds-oxt/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/ledger-adds-oxt/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/ledger-adds-oxt/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/ledger-adds-oxt/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/ledger-adds-oxt/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/ledger-adds-oxt/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Ledger Adds Orchid’s Digital Currency
\(OXT\)](/static/fb8c8d27a55e1a4ca896fc91b18481d5/Orchid_BlogImage_Ledger.jpg)

# Ledger Adds Orchid’s Digital Currency (OXT)

Mar 18, 2020  
  

Today, Orchid announces its new integration with
[Ledger](https://www.ledger.com/), the creators of the world’s most popular
hardware wallet, the [Ledger Nano S](https://shop.ledger.com/products/ledger-
nano-s). With this collaboration, we’re thrilled to welcome Ledger’s global
community into ours.

Orchid is a unique VPN because it requires OXT to fund an account. New Orchid
users can open an account by creating an Ethereum address using BRD and
purchasing at least $4 in OXT (you can [get it on
Coinbase](https://www.coinbase.com/price/orchid)) and $1 of ETH. Once the
account is created, a shareable QR code appears that contains account
credentials. Anyone can copy or scan that account into the app for a 1-step
setup.

Ledger wallet holders with up-to-date firmware can use their devices to store,
trade, and transfer OXT, the token that Orchid uses to power its international
privacy network. Ledger’s many thousands of active users now have a powerful
new tool for secure, safe, and private internet browsing.

![Ledger](/img/uploads/Ledger_Nano.jpg)

Pascal Gauthier, Ledger CEO, said: “"We are very glad to support Orchid's
digital currency (OXT) in Ledger Live. It reflects our will to bolster all of
the very engaged coin communities and our ability to scale by integrating new
projects in Ledger Live. Furthermore, Orchid's underlying values and features
are in line with what Ledger has fought for since its beginning."

Dr. Steven Waterhouse, Orchid’s Co-Founder and CEO, said: “Ledger wallets have
earned their incredible popularity, and we’re very excited that our community
will be able to store their OXT on a trusted Ledger device. Now more than
ever, it’s simple for crypto users to take back their privacy.”

Download the Orchid app to control your privacy in a new way
[here](https://www.orchid.com/download).

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Ledger%20Adds%20Orchid%E2%80%99s%20Digital%20Currency%20\(OXT\)%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fledger-
adds-oxt%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fledger-
adds-oxt%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fledger-
adds-oxt%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

](/orchid-answers-the-communitys-questions-in-binance-espaol-ama/)

[

#### Orchid answers the community’s questions in Binance Español AMA

](/orchid-answers-the-communitys-questions-in-binance-espaol-ama/)

Feb 23, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

