[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Let Us Face The Future Together: Help Us Build an Open Data Economy

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Let Us Face The Future Together: Help Us Build an Open Data Economy

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

July 2019

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

# Why should you apply to Base Camp?

##

Please visit [our application form](https://www.f6s.com/basecamplondon/apply)
on the [F6S.com](https://www.f6s.com/) site to create a profile.

Posted by Lawrence Lundy - July 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

July 2019

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

## We have launched a new accelerator program called Base Camp. Why are we
doing this and why should you apply?

Well, we advise, invest and support the development of technologies for an
open data economy. This is a mission, not just an investment strategy. We
frame this open data economy in our [Convergence Stack
model](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-convergence-stack/): a set of
privacy-protecting, peer-to-peer, and open-source technologies that will
decentralize the cloud and unbundle the Internet platforms.

![Let Us Face The Future Together: Help Us Build an Open Data Economy Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/07/2048_1024_002.jpg)

Building an open data economy cannot be achieved with just passive investing.
As an LLP we invest our own money. If the objective of the organisation isn’t
to return x multiple to limited partners then why limit ourselves to the same
structure and activities. This gives us more freedom to innovate around what
it means to be an investor in this space. So we are innovating. We are working
with corporates through our [Convergence
Alliance](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-convergence-alliance-
launch/). We are speaking to Government and regulators. And we are not
limiting ourselves to a particular stage of investing. We will continue to
invest and advise in seed-stage business through our incubator, but we will
also support projects at a [later stage and with a public
token](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-convergence-tracker-1-0/) and
[Base Camp ](https://outlierventures.io/research/launching-the-base-camp-
decentralised-tech-accelerator/)continues this theme by aiming to support pre-
seed businesses.

Today, there is a massive knowledge and funding gap for founders that maybe
just have an MVP. In 2017 and early 2018 some of these projects were turning
to initial coin offerings (ICOs) to get money, but for many of those that did
raise some money, the knowledge and networks offered by institutional
investors were missing. Over the last 6 years, we have developed expertise in
areas like crypto-economics, network growth, and customer acquisitions
strategies that we think will be extremely valuable to founders. Base Camp
looks to fill the early-stage funding gap and support great founders that
share our mission.

An important criteria beyond mission alignment is value alignment. The
Internet platforms that now dominate the web didn’t set out to eradicate
privacy but they are the result of business model-based incentives and a lack
of diversity in thinking. I am convinced that if we want the next billion
dollars businesses to be different then we need to support founders with
different values and don’t see the world as a zero-sum game to win. I want to
see founders who want to have a positive social and environmental impact, and
making money is a consequence of that rather than the primary objective.

As Andrew McAfee, co-author of Race Against the Machine said: “The world is
one big data problem.” If this is the case, then data rights are the new human
rights. An open, and fairer, the data economy is not just a business
challenge, it is one of the biggest social and economic challenges of our
time. If you share our mission and share our values we want to hear from you.

Take a look at the [program details here,](https://outlierventures.io/base-
camp/) and if you are still not sure if the program is right for you, or that
you might be too early or too large in your journey for Base Camp, message me
directly at [lawrence@outlierventures.io](mailto:lawrence@outlierventures.io)
and let’s chat.

_This article is for information purposes only and does not constitute
investment advice. This article does not amount to an invitation or inducement
to buy or sell an investment nor does it solicit any such offer or invitation
in any jurisdiction._

_In all cases, readers should conduct their own investigation and analysis of
the data in the article. All statements of opinion and/or belief contained in
this article and all views expressed and all projections, forecasts or
statements relating to expectations regarding future events represent Outlier
Ventures Operation Limited own assessment and interpretation of information
available as at the date of this article._

___No responsibility or liability is accepted by Outlier Ventures Operations
Limited or Sapia Partners LLP for reliance on the contents of this article._

_Outlier Ventures is an Appointed Representative of Sapia Partners LLP, a firm
authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)._

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

