[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![Let's get
generative](/static/5e0d2fb3d60e20ae18d23beefebddf55/e4796/header.png)

[Research](/blog/category/research/)

[Interpersonal data](/blog/category/interpersonal-data/)

[Identity](/blog/category/identity/)

## Let's get generative

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

·

October 23, 2020

The [Internet Identity Workshop](https://internetidentityworkshop.com/)
convened its 31st biannual gathering this week. Being a Zoom-based affair
(under the pandemic circumstances), I was able to 'tune in' from London for
several sessions.

Thanks to Doc Searls, Joyce Searls, and Drummond Reed for the invitation to
join in and specifically to present a session titled:

_Generative identity — for psychological, sociological, and ecological health
(aka the dystopia of SSI)_

The imperative for generativity in the realm of 'digital identity' was [first
articulated on the AKASHA blog](https://akasha.org/blog/2019/09/02/generative-
identity-beyond-self-sovereignty/) just over a year ago, and it's fair to say
that it wasn't particularly well received by the identity community. It's been
a bumpy ride.

Perhaps one should lay responsibility for that with the author rather than the
reader, with some absolution found in recognizing that naturally complex and
interdisciplinary matters challenge the best communicators. But there has also
been a palpable reluctance to explore the emergent ramifications of self-
sovereign identity (SSI) deployed at scale. Hopefully no longer.

If you would like to find out more about what we mean by _generative_ in this
context ...

If you would like to learn about SSI's distressing emergent outcomes ...

If you would like to contribute to generative identity ...

Please visit <https://generative-identity.org>

[Research](/blog/category/research/)

[Interpersonal data](/blog/category/interpersonal-data/)

[Identity](/blog/category/identity/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2020/10/23/lets-
get-generative)

