[ ![The Integral](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/04/dydx-
logo-white-1.svg) ](https://integral.dydx.exchange)

  * [ ![The Integral](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/04/dydx-logo-white-1.svg) ](https://integral.dydx.exchange)
  * ### Categories

[

###

Open Finance ](/tag/open-finance/)

[

###

Derivatives ](/tag/derivatives/)

[

###

Macroeconomics ](/tag/macroeconomics/)

[

###

dYdX Announcements ](/tag/dydx-announcements/)

[

###

Educational ](/tag/educational/)

[Trade](https://trade.dydx.exchange)

# LINK-USD Perpetual Contract Market is Live

[dYdX Announcements](https://integral.dydx.exchange/tag/dydx-announcements/) •
Aug 25, 2020

[
](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://integral.dydx.exchange/link-
usd-perpetual-contract-market-is-live/&title=LINK-
USD%20Perpetual%20Contract%20Market%20is%20Live) [
](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=LINK-
USD%20Perpetual%20Contract%20Market%20is%20Live&url=https://integral.dydx.exchange/link-
usd-perpetual-contract-market-is-live/)

We are excited to announce that the LINK-USD Perpetual Contract Market is now
[live](https://trade.dydx.exchange/perpetual/LINK-USD?trk-origin=Integral).
Traders can trade LINK with up to 8x leverage with no expiry. Our contracts
have been [audited](https://blog.openzeppelin.com/dydx-perpetual-audit/) by
Open Zeppelin, and are fully [open-
sourced](https://github.com/dydxprotocol/perpetual).

**To celebrate the launch, we are providing 50% off trading fees on the LINK-
USD Perpetual for the next 7 days.**

 _Perpetual Markets on dYdX are not available in the United States. No actual
Fiat USD is supported on dYdX._

## Why LINK?

On a daily volume basis, LINK is the most traded token in all of DeFi. While
demand is unquestionably high for LINK, we are just as excited about the
underlying oracle ecosystem that Chainlink has built. As such, we are excited
to share we are using [Chainlink's LINK-USD Price
Feed](https://docs.chain.link/docs/price-feeds-migration-august-2020) as the
oracle source for this market. Given that Chainlink’s ecosystem of data
providers have proven to be extremely reliable, even in times of high
volatility, we are confident that this oracle integration will perform
extremely well.

## Contract Specification

Details for the LINK–USD perpetual market are provided below. General
information and examples can be found in the [Perpetual
Guide](https://docs.dydx.exchange/#link-usd-perpetual-contract-specification).
Details on the protocol and decentralization can be found
[here](https://docs.dydx.exchange/#introduction).

  *  _Perpetual type:[Linear](https://docs.dydx.exchange/#linear-and-inverse-perpetuals)_
  *  _Underlying market: LINK–USD_
  *  _Margin/settlement asset: USDC_
  *  _Tick size: $0.005 USD_
  *  _Min order size: 15 LINK_
  *  _Quantity step: 0.000001 LINK_
  *  _Max order size: None_
  *  _Max position size: None_
  *  _Expiry: Perpetual (no expiration)_
  *  _Maximum leverage: 8x_
  *  _Initial margin requirement: 12.5%_
  *  _Maintenance margin requirement: 10.0%_
  *  _Interest rate component for funding: 0%_
  *  _Impact notional amount for funding: $5000_
  *  _Fees: -0.025% Maker, 0.15% Taker_
  *  _Custom fees for “small” orders:[variable depending on gas cost](https://help.dydx.exchange/en/articles/3784235-trade-fees-on-dydx)_
  *  _Min order size to place limit order: 1200 LINK_
  *  _Mark price for liquidations: The mark price is the on-chain index price, given by the[Chainlink LINK–USD Price Feed](https://docs.chain.link/docs/price-feeds-migration-august-2020) which reports a weighted median from seven market data aggregators._
  *  _Funding: Funding payments are made every second according to a rate which is updated hourly. The funding premium is scaled so as to have a realization period of 8 hours._
  *  _Contract loss mechanism: Deleveraging (centralized, but verifiable insurance fund is the first backstop before deleveraging)_
  *  _Trading hours: 24/7/365_

## What’s Next?

We are working on launching additional Perpetual Contracts in the future, with
the goal of making dYdX the go-to platform for trading a variety of
cryptoassets across Spot, Margin, and Perpetuals. We are also actively
building a [Layer 2 solution](https://integral.dydx.exchange/scaling-with-
starkware/) with StarkWare to be able to offer an even better experience for
our traders.

If you’d like to get started with trading on our platform or have any other
questions, please join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/y6KsCsr) and follow us
on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/dydxprotocol).

[Trade](https://trade.dydx.exchange/perpetual/LINK-USD?trk-origin=Integral)
the LINK Perpetual now →

#### Subscribe to our newsletter

Get the latest posts delivered right to your inbox.

Your email address Subscribe

![Success!](https://integral.dydx.exchange/assets/images/success.png?v=c7f248bd02)

Now check your inbox and click the link to confirm your subscription.

Please enter a valid email address

Oops! There was an error sending the email, please try later.

[ ](https://integral.dydx.exchange/author/dydx/)

####  [dYdX Exchange](https://integral.dydx.exchange/author/dydx/)

dYdX is a decentralized exchange that supports spot, margin, and perpetuals
trading. The Integral is a blog covering Open Finance, Crypto Markets,
Bitcoin, Crypto Derivatives and dYdX Announcements.

No results for your search, please try with something else.

The Integral (C) 2022   •   Published with [Ghost](https://ghost.org)

[ ](https://t.me/joinchat/GBnMlBb9mQblQck2pThTgw) [
](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dydx/) [
](https://twitter.com/dydxprotocol)

[JavaScript license
information](https://integral.dydx.exchange/assets/html/javascript.html?v=c7f248bd02)

Great! You've successfully subscribed.

Great! Next, complete checkout for full access.

Welcome back! You've successfully signed in.

Success! Your account is fully activated, you now have access to all content.

