[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# London Blockchain Firms Raise over $500 Million in Equity Funding since 2013

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

London Blockchain Firms Raise over $500 Million in Equity Funding since 2013

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/ov_joel-150x150.jpg)

February 2020

Posted by

Joel John

Research Analyst

Joel has been working on blockchain related projects since 2012. His foray
into the industry began with an attempt to create an exchange/remittance
mechanism for blue-collar laborers in the middle east to send money home in a
cost effective fashion. ...[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1228)

### _Analysis of global startup hubs has revealed that London may be one of
the most preferred hubs for blockchain start-ups to headquarter themselves._

### [Read the full report](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/02/OV-London-Blockchain-2020-4.pdf)

Posted by Joel John - February 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/ov_joel-150x150.jpg)

February 2020

Posted by

Joel John

Research Analyst

Joel has been working on blockchain related projects since 2012. His foray
into the industry began with an attempt to create an exchange/remittance
mechanism for blue-collar laborers in the middle east to send money home in a
cost effective fashion. ...[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1228)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

An impressive 450 blockchain companies call London home. Easy inflow of talent
from the EU (prior to Brexit), low barriers to company incorporation and
active involvement of the FCA combined with the broader fintech ecosystem
around London is considered to be the key reasons behind this.

**[Read the full report](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/02/OV-London-Blockchain-2020-4.pdf) **

Blockchain startups in the United Kingdom have raised a collective $503
million between themselves in equity raises. 1 in 3 blockchain companies in
the region manage to raise funding. Of the total capital allocation, $95
million is invested in seed stages alone. London also dominates as a preferred
hub for startups to set themselves up in comparison to other regions in the EU
like Berlin and Zug in spite of their thriving ecosystem.  
  
Easy capital does not necessarily mean rampant scaling or growth. The power
laws for blockchain firms in the UK are similar to those found elsewhere. Only
13 percent of all firms that raise funding go on to raise a Series A and a
mere 3% witness a Series B. Challenges around regulations, attracting the
right talent post Brexit, targeting ideal markets and improving user
experiences plague startups in the UK too. One of the challenges faced by
startups is that while the technology could see substantial adoption in
another part of the world, regional regulations being laggard and strictly
enforced could restrict how fast firms can react to changes.

Blockchain as an ecosystem continues to be unwelcoming to women. According to
the limited data available on Crunchbase, a mere 13% of employees in
blockchain startups are women and only 10.4% of founders with investments are
women.

The United Kingdom beats its peers by far but if the ecosystem needs to grow,
more needs to be done in terms of diversity. The United States had slightly
more female employees (at 14.2%) but considerably lower number of female
founders with backing. With startups like Blockchain.info and Revolut in the
region, London is home to some of the biggest names in both fintech and the
digital asset ecosystem. With regulators like the Bank of England being active
proponents of Central Bank Digital Currencies and regional investment funds
scaling up their activity, London clearly is in good shape to continue being a
dominant hub for blockchain startups to set themselves up in.

**_Joel John, Outlier Ventures Analyst:_** __

> _“London remains impressive for its ability to enable startups to
> incorporate and raise within short periods of time. A major contributor
> towards this is the well established financial ecosystem in the region.
> London absorbing blockchain projects is an indication of the region’s
> evolution.”_ _  
> _

Outlier Ventures are looking to continue to grow, develop and support London
startups working in the open data economy. Outlier run a 3 month accelerator
program called Base Camp with £35k immediate funding, office space, legal and
back-office support for early stage projects.

If you are an early stage startup in London building emerging technology or
want to learn more about how you or your company could be involved, drop in an
email to Scott Collen who runs the program:
[scott@outlierventures.io](mailto:scott@outlierventures.io)

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

