[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ ‰∏≠Êñá ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [updates](../../../blog/updates)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Oct 26, 2020  

## Looking Back on Filecoin Liftoff Week

Last week was packed with talks, demos, workshops, and more for Filecoin
Liftoff Week. We know a lot happened, so we wanted to take a minute to
summarize the week‚Äôs highlights, most important announcements, and where you
can find more information.

### Announcements

#### ü§ùFilecoin & ConsenSys Partnership

Last week, we announced Protocol Labs‚Äô expanded collaboration with ConsenSys,
one of the most trusted software engineering leaders in the Ethereum space.
The new collaboration between ConsenSys Labs and Protocol Labs is bringing
together the Filecoin and Ethereum ecosystems to drive the next generation of
the web. Already, the collaboration has announced [Filecoin
Storage](https://www.storage.codefi.network/) and [Filecoin Defi
Bridge](https://codefi.consensys.net/blog/consensys-codefi-to-launch-a-
filecoin-defi-bridge-and-storage-market) from ConsenSys Codefi, [MetaMask‚Äôs
Snaps](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-snaps-beta/wiki), [Infura‚Äôs
Filecoin Network API](http://infura.io/), Secondary Retrieval Mining research
with ConsenSys R&D, and this past summer‚Äôs Tachyon Launchpad Accelerator.

#### üìÇFilecoin Archive & Recommendations

The [Filecoin
Archive](https://twitter.com/juanbenet/status/1319375340196646913) is a
collaboration with Filecoin and the Internet Archive project to select
important datasets of information and preserve them on the Filecoin network.
This community-driven effort needs your help deciding what information to
select! Anyone can suggest an idea by tweeting it and tagging
#FilecoinArchives. The Internet Archive and Protocol Labs will gather your
suggestions, publish the full list, and curate a subset for preservation on
the Filecoin network - which then anyone can help replicate. [Learn
more](https://twitter.com/juanbenet/status/1319375340196646913).

#### üöÄFilecoin Foundation Launch

Announced this week, the Filecoin Foundation is a board of leaders from the
Web3, technology, legal, and activism sectors responsible for the oversight
and governance of the Filecoin network. The Filecoin Foundation will work to
support and grow the community while stimulating the development of the
network. Filecoin Foundation members include Ethereum co-founder Joe Lubin,
Blockchain Association Executive Director Kristin Smith, Protocol Labs outside
counsel Marta Belcher, and Hyperledger Executive Director Brian Behlendorf,
and more. [Meet the Filecoin
Foundation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6OY4xAs3Grg).

#### üêûBug Bounty Program

We created a program to reward all security researchers, hackers and security
aficionados that invest time into finding bugs on the Filecoin protocol and
its respective implementations. We invite all security researchers to join us
in maintaining the security of the Filecoin Network. [Learn
more](https://security.filecoin.io/).

### Filecoin Liftoff Week Resources

All of the talks, demos, panels, and more from last week have been uploaded to
the [Filecoin YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCPyYmtJYQwxM-
EUyRUTp5DA). Check out your favorite talks and let us know what you think with
#FilecoinLiftoff on Twitter! We also [host monthly Filecoin
meetups](https://www.meetup.com/Filecoin-San-Francisco/) to meet one another
and go over the latest and greatest in Filecoin. We hope to see you there!

Thank you again for helping us launch the Filecoin network in the best way
possible last week. We can‚Äôt wait for what lies ahead!

üöÄüöÄüöÄ

The Filecoin Team

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You‚Äôve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

