[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Mapping Decentralised Finance (DeFi)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Mapping Decentralised Finance (DeFi)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/ov_joel-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Joel John

Research Analyst

Joel has been working on blockchain related projects since 2012. His foray
into the industry began with an attempt to create an exchange/remittance
mechanism for blue-collar laborers in the middle east to send money home in a
cost effective fashion. ...[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1228)

# What is Decentralised Finance or DeFi?

## By Joel John & Lawrence Lundy-Bryan

Download the full report here: [Mapping Decentralised Finance (DeFi)
report](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/Mapping-
Decentralised-Finance-DeFi-report.pdf)



Posted by Joel John - June 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/ov_joel-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Joel John

Research Analyst

Joel has been working on blockchain related projects since 2012. His foray
into the industry began with an attempt to create an exchange/remittance
mechanism for blue-collar laborers in the middle east to send money home in a
cost effective fashion. ...[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1228)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

### Peer-to-peer electronic financial instruments

Bitcoin is a peer-to-peer electronic cash system. DeFi is a peer-to-peer
electronic financial instrument system and refers to projects that are using
cryptographic tokens and blockchains enabling anyone to issue, transfer and
own financial instruments. The maturity of the Ethereum network has resulted
in a slew of projects that are issuing not just ERC20 tokens but all types of
financial instruments. Bitcoin emerged as an alternative to the financial
system but the lack of features (which is a feature in itself) – has made it
difficult to create complex financial instruments on it. But the smart
contract functionality on Ethereum led to the relatively easy creation of
complex financial instruments. While the Lightning Network does open Bitcoin
up to micropayment use cases, realistically it is unsuitable for the sorts of
instruments that can be created using full smart contract functionality. Other
networks like EOS, Cardano, Dfinity, and lots of others with smart contract
functionality could potentially be used by DeFi projects, but for now,
Ethereum is the market leader predominantly because it has the largest
developer mindshare and lots of ETH holders looking to put their money to
work.

It is important to note that open-finance and decentralised finance are two
different terms that may converge at some point and share similar attributes.
Open finance points towards an unbundling of banking services where API-
enabled startups provide niche services in a limited geographical region. They
require full AML/KYC and are often B2C focused. Decentralised finance on the
other hand often runs pseudo-anonymous, could potentially be censorship
resistant, caters to a global market, and is considerably more transparent
thanks to their operations running on public permissionless blockchains. When
a decentralised exchange is hacked, it shows on a verifiable, public ledger.
Decentralised finance could theoretically cater to the global market in
comparison to open-finance projects that require routine license renewal and
compliance with the legal policies of each region. Of course, as with almost
everything in crypto-land, this is all still very much a legal gray area.

### What is Decentralised Finance or DeFi?

![Mapping Decentralised Finance \(DeFi\) Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Screenshot-2019-06-12-at-11.55.49.png)

In order to fall under our definition of “decentralised finance” a project
would be required to have the following attributes:

  1. Censorship Resistance - Token custody, transfer, and exchange cannot be restricted by a handful of players responsible for maintenance of the network.
  2. Programmable Assets- Assets that are handled on the product should have all the native attributes of conventional tokens on a decentralised network.
  3. Pseudonymity - Decentralised financial applications should be able to leverage web 3.0 standards for signing of transactions and authentication. Thereby, drastically reducing the need for AML/KYC and making financial tools inclusive to a broader audience.
  4. Transparent and trustless - The current custodian of an asset in a de-fi project should always be verifiable on the blockchain and its custody should only involve smart contracts and wallets. There should not be large, centralised, exchange owned wallets in a de-fi product. In the presence of a smart contract, the code for the same should be open-sourced.
  5. Permissionless - Unlike “open-finance”, decentralised finance should allow anyone to create applications without the need for applications being approved by large, central banking authorities.

Keeping these in mind - one could define a decentralised finance application
as a censorship-resistant, transparent tool that enables the transfer,
custody, and exchange of tokenised assets that may be fungible or non-fungible
in a permissionless environment with almost no requirements for identity
verification. Decentralised finance varies from “open-finance” in the
conventional sense because much of the stack in “open-finance” relies heavily
on traditional banking entities that require strong AML/KYC requirements and
fall largely under the regulatory purview of government bodies.  
  
These lines have blurred to a certain extent for the purpose of creating the
market-map. A dollar pegged token with central custody like Tether cannot be
truly considered “decentralised finance”, however, it plays a major role in
the ecosystem currently. Similarly, Nexo is a relatively centralised lending
entity when compared to an alternative like Dharma Plex. However, in terms of
liquidity and token offerings, the platform offers the highest and has
therefore been included. Projects that require a heavy amount of AML/KYC or
work directly under the purview of banks (Eg: JP Morgan’s Interbank
Information Network) have been excluded as they are not as inclusive as
Bitcoin is. The line blurs a little more when it comes to securities offerings
due to the heavy regulatory requirements involved. Much like how
decentralisation itself is a spectrum, decentralised finance has projects that
range from complete inclusion to ones with certain entry barriers. With this
in mind, it is to be noted that not all the projects mentioned in the market-
map may be ‘decentralised’. They are however a gradual step towards creating a
more inclusive, transparent and efficient financial ecosystems.

The single largest use-case within the De-Fi ecosystem currently has been for
stable tokens. Within these, Dai tends to own the vast majority of the market
if we discount tether due to its centralised nature. There are a number of
other, associated products that have emerged as a result of the same. We
broadly categorise them across issuance, trading, and ownership.

  1. **Issuance**

Broadly, issuance here refers to the creation of a new asset (eg: tokenised
debt) that can then be traded, transferred or used as per requirements. In an
ideal world, there should be little barriers to issuance (eg: ERC-20 tokens on
Ethereum) and details regarding its issue, supply and transfer should be
publicly verifiable. ICO tokens are one instance where issuance has become a
prominent trend.

  2. **Trading**

Trading in this context involves infrastructure that enables the trading of
assets that are tokenised. Niche token instruments such as derivatives or
prediction markets that are native to stand alone platforms (eg: Numerai
Erasure, CDx swaps) will be considered under trading instead of issuance since
these assets are native to the platform they are traded on.

  3. **Ownership**

Ownership in our definition would refer to solutions that enable the custody
of a token asset or its growth through lending based products. A product that
allows loan issuance could belong to both issuance and ownership depending on
who the user is. For the individual taking the loan, it would be an issuance
platform. For the individual offering non custodial lending (eg: Dharma
Protocol), it would be categorised under ownership since the product is a
mechanism to increase token holdings without centralised custody. Similar to a
bank’s fixed deposit offering that offers an annualised interest rate on
deposits.

### 1\. Issuance

While tokenizing of physical assets (eg; REITs on a blockchain) has been a key
focus area over the past 2 quarters, current trends indicate that demand
primarily stems from creation of virtual assets that can be traded. The
cryptokitties phenomenon of 2017 was a run-up to the heightened interest in
issuance of new virtual assets that derive demand from market perception of a
virtual asset. We will see stable tokens continue to dominate under “issuance”
with a clear power law evident as Tether and Dai take the lead. It is also
likely that with Facebook and Coinbase likely to enter the remittance space,
issuance of digital assets backed by fiat currency becomes a core focus area
for the industry in the quarters to come. A resurgence of MobWars or Farmville
(remember those?) like social games with NFT tokens is not unlikely. These
would contribute substantially towards individuals opening up to virtual
assets more and give existing, ad-driven businesses an alternative business
model to explore.

### 1.1 Stable Tokens

Within the constraints of the definition of decentralised finance given above,
it is safe to suggest that algorithmic stable tokens that do not require a
centralised, banking entity are the only tokens that are truly
“decentralised”. Any requirement for asset, commodity or fiat backing could
bring a great element of decentralisation in the process. If a stable token’s
issuer (eg: USDC) can dictate the terms upon which a dollar redemption is
made, it is not safe to suggest that it is decentralised. Although ERC-20
tokens that are backed by Fiat can be used for the purpose of creating De-Fi
applications, the centralised nature of the custody of the assets backing
those currencies, make it highly risky. With Basis being shut down abruptly,
MakerDai has been able to capture the bulk of the markets. Most decentralised
exchanges and de-fi oriented products in the market are built on Dai. In the
future, we’ll see two broad streams of stable tokens emerging. One will be
lead by exchange collaborations (eg: Terra). The primary intent of these
tokens will be to provide a stable alternative to traders and a hedge against
banking services being cut off. Digitally native stable tokens will also
contribute towards cutting off middle-men in internet run businesses that lose
heavy margins to banks and foreign exchange rates. Subscription layers to
enable these payments are already being created by the likes of [Groundhog.
](http://groundhog.network)We may also see competition between social networks
such as Facebook and vKontact to create regional stable tokens to enable on-
platform shopping experiences. Instagram’s move towards enabling users to
purchase from the platform is an early move towards this.

### 1.2 Debt Markets

The competition here is in terms of interest rates offered and liquidity
provided. Since the market is still in its early stages, traders and lenders
choose to go with platforms that offer the highest amount in interest.
Interest rate settlements may be in tokens (eg: Eth) or in dollar terms.
Platforms like Compound and Dharma currently offer token settled interest
rates. This is hugely attractive to token holders with large sums that wish to
grow their token amounts with little risk. The rise of staking platforms have
added a new layer of complexity to debt markets. It is likely that we see
entrepreneurs arbitrage between debt markets (take token denominated debt for
the low amount in interest) and arbitrage with staking interest received.
Staking specialists like Vest and Staked will provide custodian services and
offer interest at the same time and will thus compete against debt markets for
market-share. Over the course of time, market efficiency will lead to a
convergence of staking and debt based returns in token terms. Token-based debt
markets also hold the power to bring together markets with variations in
regional interest rates. Nuo.network, for instance, is seeing a high degree of
interest from Japan where the inflation rate stood as low as 0.2. Given the
pace at which tokens can move globally, it is likely that investors move
currencies from low inflation rate markets to tokens and loan them out for
higher interest offerings when compared to what their banks offer. There has
been an attempt at creating a standard inter-platform token lending rate in
the form of[ DIPOR by The Block.
](https://www.theblockcrypto.com/2019/04/11/introducing-dipor-libor-for-open-
finance/)

### 1.3 Securities, Insurance and NFTs

Insurance in De-Fi is likely to not take off until IoT enabled verification or
better forms of oracles come of age. Currently, most of the traction is
captured within Harbor and Polymath through ongoing collaborations with
platforms like Smart Valor. Security tokens will rely heavily on regional
regulations giving a thumbs up before we see them capture substantial
traction. Abacus and Open Finance network fair better than competitors due to
their relatively advantageous positions from a regulatory angle. NFTs are yet
to come of age. With gaming platforms built with blockchains evolving and
AR/VR applications emerging, we may see NFTs being a core component of the
ecosystem. For now, the bulk of the value for financial applications remain
within securities. It could also be argued that this segment of De-Fi has a
relatively high degree of centralisation due to its reliance on a central
entity for issuance. Changes in governance structures for STOs will combine
the advantages of regional regulatory oversight, on-chain governance and
decentralised ownership. However, this will rely on the pace at which
regulators move. France, Switzerland and Singapore lead in terms of clarity
for the moment.

### 2\. Ownership

Between India’s demonetisation drive in 2016 and Venezuela’s current monetary
situation, it is fair to suggest that private ownership of stores of value
with instant redemption will be crucial to citizens going forward. Given the
number of times exchanges have been hacked, the market may have an appetite
for products that enable financial services without losing custody. It could
involve tracking the price of a basket of coins (eg: Set Protocol), making
direct peer to peer payments with no middle men (eg: xDai, Local Ethereum) or
independent storage. Broadly, we categorise them as wallets, fund management
and payment networks.

### 2.1 Wallets

Currently, Metamask is the preferred web 3.0 wallet. The ease with which it
integrates with browsers makes it a preferred solution for DeFi users.
MyEtherWallet has relative dominance due to their integrations with hardware
wallets (ie - ledger, trezor). A new crop of wallets like Balance and Trust
emphasise heavily on user experience as a moat. However, the lack of browser
integration would mean, it is likely that Metamask maintains dominance in
terms of number of wallets until mobile app based de-fi products come of age.
In addition, the emergence of in-browser wallets like those offered by Opera
and Brave browser will bring millions of new users who had previously never
heard of tokens to the ecosystem. These wallets will contribute substantially
towards an increase in usage of NFTs (non fungible tokens) in consumer
applications like games. It won’t be long before we see in-game assets traded
through browser based wallets.

### 2.2 Fund Management

ICONOMI has been a leader in terms of volume attracted for fund managers to
set up open, trackable portfolios. However, the project is largely
centralised. A prominent competitor that works in a decentralised fashion
currently is Rigoblock. The startup has an on-going collaboration with
Ethfinex wherein individuals can trade on Ethfinex and show a public portfolio
listed on rigoblock. The set protocol offers a similar approach of creating
baskets of tokens and allowing individuals to buy them. Another key player in
the decentralised fund management space is Melon Protocol. The protocol allows
managers to set up their own customized rule-sets for an on-chain hedge fund,
basket, tracker or ETF which interacts with tokens and enables anyone with
tokens to invest. The rulesets are enforced by the smart-contracts.

Most centralised funds have little, verifiable proof of holdings, performance,
fees & risk management. Melon protocol offers a single dashboard that allows
individuals to verify all these characteristics and more — the dashboard is
backed by on-chain smart contract proofs and enables investors to self-custody
their assets rather than having to trust a 3rd party. Social trading may
likely not take off until the next bull cycle enters the market and
individuals need tools like trading view to share their portfolio’s
performances. The next bull cycle will also witness “social trading” elements
that connect to an individual’s wallet for portfolio tracking and identity.  
[Settle.finance](http://www.settle.finance/) is an early example.

### 2.3 Payments Networks

There is a small crop of startups emphasising specifically on improving the
pace at which payments occur. xDai is a project on POA network that offers
Dai’s stability and web 2.0 speed. Similarly, Matic network claims
instantaneous payments although with a very high level of centralisation.
Emergent payment networks are too early stage to define a clear winner yet.
Payment networks in De-Fi will likely need a service like Stripe that allows
individuals to pay with conventional means on one end (eg: credit card) and
offer tokens on the other end (eg: Dai). This comes with a high degree of
risks associated with fraud and forex slippages but it has the power to
improve the revenues of digital first internet companies. As payment networks
come of age, token based escrow systems will also lead to the creation of new
age business models that were previously not possible.

### 3\. Trading

One element about trading in the defi-ecosystem that differentiates it from
mainstream finance is the barriers to wash-trading within it currently. Fees
associated with relaying exchange requests (eg: Gas expenditure on IDEX
orders) could make it relatively more difficult to spoof orders and manipulate
markets. However, this comes with the great disadvantage of slower order
settlement and possibly, thinner books. Ethfinex had a market volume of 95
million for Eth tokens alone, followed by Omisego which had a paltry volume of
2 million in comparison. Market-liquidity and arbitrage in Decentralised
ecosystems is still picking up and it will likely take time before we see
market-efficiency in token prices like we do with centralised exchanges.
Scaling solutions will play a key role in making this transition occur. Much
like how traditional finance underwent a period of digitisation in the 1980s,
we’ll witness a move to decentralise trading avenues, bringing markets closer,
reducing trade barriers and a surge in transparency on how markets function.
Where traditional banking is seeing an “unbundling” process, protocols are
beginning to evolve to provide complete banking services on their own. The
ideal scenario being one where an individual can trade, loan and hold tokens
on a single platform. MarketProtocol has been contributing substantially
towards making this happen.

### 3.1 Decentralised Exchanges (Dex)

The key reason why decentralised exchanges appeal to an increasingly larger
audience is the elements of instantaneous custody and no withdrawal limits.
Traders that have had painful experiences with MtGox hacks and long hours of
waiting while exchanges verify their AML/KYC documents would rather prefer to
trade on a decentralised exchange than go through a centralised alternative.
They would also be preferred in regions with strict controls on trading. With
the emergence of stable tokens like USDC, DAI and USDT, traders would prefer
to book their capital gains in stable assets and convert to cash through P2P
mechanisms and avoid reporting to the government altogether. Another aspect
we’ll see through Dex’s will be an emergence in currency conversions without
government involvement. Peer to peer mechanisms involving cash could be used
to convert money to Ether and then a decentralised exchange could be used to
purchase a stable dollar pegged token. Local Ethereum’s integration of Dai
points to a possibility of this occurring. In regions like India, where
inflation is as high as 6%-7%, this will be a route to circumvent government
limits on conversions to dollar. Dex liquidity and UX however remain woeful
currently. The leaders in fixing this challenge currently remains centralised
exchanges that launch “trustless”variants of their own operations. Binance and
Bitfinex have their own decentralised exchange offerings. There’s also
concerns around front-running in decentralised exchanges emerging.

### 3.2 Derivatives, Swaps and Prediction Markets

We are still at the earliest stages of seeing this element in trading take
off. DyDx and CdxProject are currently in the inception stages of their
products going live. DyDx allows individual investors to purchase margin long
and margin short tokens whilst CDX enables the creation of credit default
swaps that allow traders to hedge against an exchange being hacked. Nuo has a
functional, non custodial margin trading platform that uses reserves loaned
out by other users to help individuals trade on leverage. Prediction markets
like Augur and Gnosis currently suffer from UX challenges and user-awareness.
While projects like Veil and Guesser are attempting to make these tools easier
to use they still have a long way to go. Numeraire’s move to enabling
individuals to create prediction markets of all kinds could prove to be
ground-breaking due to their current community of data-scientists.

### 3.3 Liquidity Relays

Although decentralised exchanges remove the need to trust a central entity
with custody of tokens (barring smart contract transfers), challenges in
liquidity still plague them. Tokens could be selling at variable prices in
different exchanges and may not have the necessary amount of liquidity needed
to handle large orders. One way the De-Fi ecosystem mitigates this is through
liquidity protocols like 0x and more recently, tools like Totle. Totle’s app
currently allows individuals to create a basket order of multiple tokens and
relay them across a large number of exchanges with a handful of clicks. Orders
for tokens are settled in different exchanges and the new erc-20 token is
transferred back to the user. The use of metamask for signing transactions
makes the complex process of engaging with multiple exchanges far more
intuitive. An outlier among these is Uniswap. The project is an automated
market-maker with reserves that [pay a small fee (.3%)
](https://medium.com/@mika_49129/uniswap-and-value-capture-in-decentralised-
exchange-protocols-b8df056eb95e)of the trade involved. With interoperability
protocols like Cosmos and Polkadot coming of age, it won’t be long before
cross-chain dex transactions become common. Between tokens tied up in
centralised exchanges, personal custody and reserves in decentralised
exchanges, there will be a gap for a protocol layer that enables arbitrage
between lending, trading and where ideal, even staking. Kyber’s integration in
MyEtherWallet to provide in-wallet exchanges is an example of how liquidity
relays contribute monumentally towards improving customer experiences.

### The Future

Individual users won’t want to use multiple platforms for their transactions.
Users will largely converge around on-ramps (eg: exchanges) and wallets (eg:
balance.io). Given the open-source and decentralized nature of these projects,
each of them will be able to interconnect with one another to enable trading,
storage of existing assets, insurance and the like within the same platform.
We are seeing some early variants of this with Trust Wallet offering
interactions with Dapps. Platforms like Morpher.io and Abra are beginning to
combine traditional instruments like equity with tokens and it will play a
major role in driving individuals in remote parts of the world to have
exposure to previously unattainable foreign assets. Over time, De-Fi platforms
may remove the complexity added by regulators in the interest of keeping
economies walled away and allow retail investors without the necessary tools
(eg: specialist banks) to get access to commodities, exotic assets,
derivatives, foreign currencies, and even equity.



![Mapping Decentralised Finance \(DeFi\) Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Screenshot-2019-06-11-at-17.25.29.png)A sneak peek at
what DeFi platforms will look like in the future. Source: Morpher.

The DeFi ecosystem, in its entirety, is perhaps worth around ~$1 billion.
Today, the bulk of this comes from MakerDAO. Considering the total market-
capitalisation of $173 billion, it is worth less than 1% of the total
ecosystem if we take token market capitalization as a proxy. However,
decentralised finance is one of the few instances where a tokenised product is
used routinely. It has the power to bring the “utility” back to utility
tokens. Decentralised finance has the power to enable applications that were
considered possible in 2013 but difficult to pursue due to scaling challenges
and volatility. The emergence of stable tokens, payment systems and lending
platforms could make opportunities for entrepreneurs around the globe and
bring our financial markets closer while increasing transparency. While there
is a great systemic risk in these systems (eg: Dai locked up with eth, used to
buy Eth), they offer an alternative from the banks who with their CDOs may
have put an entire generation to peril in 2008. It is too early to suggest any
of them are clear winners. However, it may be just as early to suggest DeFi
will not bring value to the ecosystem.

400 years back, when entrepreneurs traveling far and wide in search of new
opportunities issued stock, it was a mechanism for individuals to share the
risks and rewards of new ventures. It democratised access to the means of
wealth generation. 10 years back, when Satoshi released Bitcoin’s code, he
created a financial system that ensured the sovereignty of an individual’s
wealth remained with them.

Decentralised finance is a gradual evolution of the same. It holds the power
to bring our markets closer than ever before, eradicate unnecessary middle-
men, bring considerable cost efficiencies and opens access to communities that
have until now remained under-served. Much like the web, it will initially
cater to a privileged few, but its benefits will pass on to an entire
generation of under-served consumers who may never had access to loans or the
means to make payments abroad. If macrotrends like the gig economy and
globalisation are to continue going forward, the financial infrastructure to
enable that needs to fall in place.

With decentralised finance, we have our first true shot at making it happen.
When Satoshi released Bitcoin’s whitepaper, it came at a time when banks were
at the brink of yet another bailout. Decentralised finance, builds upon his
vision, of giving individuals dignity, sovereignty, and transparency about how
their hard-earned assets are stored and invested. It isn’t the antibanking
establishment. It is a pro-consumer choice. And in building it, one isn’t
derailing the power of the government or banks, but rather empowering the
common man to have an alternative in an ecosystem where there hasn’t been one
for centuries.

### Engage with us

Our reputation has originated as a consequence of our deep commitment to open
research and thought leadership in the decentralisation space broadly, and
more specifically, through our Convergence Stack thesis.

We engage regularly with start-ups, academia, and the corporate ecosystem and
are open to collaboration and consulting opportunities throughout the
community. Current research themes are focused on smart cities, energy,
mobility, connectivity, augmented reality, and “crossing the chasm” to
mainstream decentralised technology adoption.

If you wish to discuss your project or initiative further, please contact
Lawrence, Charlotte or Catherine.

![Mapping Decentralised Finance \(DeFi\) Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Screenshot-2019-06-11-at-17.29.45.png)

![Mapping Decentralised Finance \(DeFi\) Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Screenshot-2019-06-12-at-10.09.23.png)



Download the full report here: [Mapping Decentralised Finance (DeFi)
report](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/Mapping-
Decentralised-Finance-DeFi-report.pdf)

DISCLAIMER

This email is intended only for the person to whom it is addressed. No one
else may place any reliance upon, copy or forward all or any form of this
email in any way. If an addressing or transmission error has misdirected this
email, please notify the sender by responding directly, ensure the email is
deleted and is not used, disclosed, copied, printed or relied upon in any
manner. To the extent permitted by law, Lawson Conner Services Ltd does not
accept or assume any liability, responsibility or duty of care for any use of,
or reliance upon, this email by anyone, other than the intended recipient, to
the extent agreed in the relevant contract for the matter to which this email
relates (if any). Lawson Conner Services Ltd is a Company registered in
England and Wales, registered number 07277134. Lawson Conner Services Ltd,
Sapia Partners LLP and G10 Capital Limited are part of the Lawson Conner
Group. Lawson Conner is part of IQ-EQ.

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

