For better experience, please enable JavaScript.

[Multicoin Capital](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * Media
  * More
  * [Contact](/contact/)

![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

  * [English](/2020/03/20/march-12-the-day-crypto-market-structure-broke-part-2/)
  * [中文](/zh/2020/03/20/march-12-the-day-crypto-market-structure-broke-part-2/)
  * [한국어](/ko/2020/03/20/march-12-the-day-crypto-market-structure-broke-part-2/)
  * 日本語

![](data:image/png;base64,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)

### Search posts

dark mode

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

  * [Archives](https://github.com/multicoincapital/crypto-archives)
  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)

[Writing](/blog/category/blog/)

## March 12: The Day Crypto Market Structure Broke (Part 2)

By [Kyle Samani](/about#225b2112-7be1-5fc9-8755-db7e245ba5a5)

March 20, 2020 | 14 minute read

![Copy URL to clipboard
button](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

 _ **Note:**_ _A few days ago I published a
postmortem[detailing](https://multicoin.capital/2020/03/17/march-12-the-day-
crypto-market-structure-broke/ "March 12: The Day Crypto Market Structure
Broke \(Part 1\)") how the crypto market structure broke on March 12. This
post, Part 2, will explore the potential solutions to some of the systemic
problems outlined in Part 1._

To recap, one of the core structural problems is that current blockchains—both
Bitcoin and Ethereum—simply do not support enough transaction throughput to
facilitate global trading across many venues in volatile environments. When
volatility picks up, traders need to shuttle assets between exchanges to arb
price discrepancies, and they need to do this quickly (low latency).

In this post, I’ll explore some of the potential solutions, both market
structure reforms and tech upgrades. This essay assumes a foundational
understanding of various scaling technologies and the current market
structure.

## Modifying Market Structure

### CONSOLIDATING TRADING VENUES

Right now there are about 10 major centralized trading venues around the
world. If trading consolidates into fewer venues, then that would mean that 1)
there are fewer venues to arbitrage, and 2) less need to shuttle assets on
chain.

However, this is not likely to occur in the foreseeable future. Instead,
liquidity has actually become more fragmented over the last few years as
crypto has proliferated. In the first half of 2017, there were 4-5 major
exchanges. Today, there are more than 10, and a long tail of smaller
exchanges. This has been a result of local politics and fiat regulations
(especially in countries like South Korea that have strict fiat regulations),
the rapid growth of derivatives exchanges, and the fundamental divide between
regulated and unregulated venues.

Moreover, as crypto continues to grow around the world, some countries appear
to be cementing their local market structures. For example, it’s very
difficult to see anyone launch a new exchange in China that challenges Huobi
or Okex given their connections to the regional and national governments.
There is a different, although somewhat comparable, paradigm in South Korea.
This ossification ensures that liquidity stays fragmented for the foreseeable
future.

### CLEARINGHOUSES AND PRIME BROKERS

Because liquidity is fragmented across so many venues, liquidity providers are
forced to split up their capital across many venues. This creates [basis
risk](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/basisrisk.asp "Basis Risk"), which
in turns limits the amount of liquidity they can provide per USD of collateral
on each venue. If liquidity providers can cross-margin positions across
exchanges, and net out longs and shorts, they can mitigate basis risk and
provide more liquidity per dollar of collateral on each exchange.

Clearinghouses are the solution. However, they manifest in different forms.
The two major categories are custodial and non-custodial.

The simplest custodial clearinghouse is effectively a prime broker that
deposits collateral across exchanges, and acts as a clearinghouse across all
of its customers. If a single prime broker has sufficient collateral across
all venues, traders can face it rather than all of the exchanges, and abstract
basis risk from individual traders. While the prime broker may need to
occasionally rebalance assets across venues, this should dramatically reduce
the demand for blockspace and gas on Bitcoin and Ethereum, respectively.

Traditional prime brokers in other asset classes are large banks like JP
Morgan. They are some of the only entities with the amount of capital
necessary to act as a trustworthy prime broker that both exchanges and traders
trust. It does not appear likely that any large banks will offer prime
brokerage services in crypto anytime soon, although [Tagomi](http://tagomi.com
"Tagomi") continues to add an increasing number of prime brokerage services.

A non-custodial solution is something like [X-Margin](http://xmargin.io/
"X-margin"), which aims to provide non-custodial cross-margining across
exchanges. While the technical details are beyond the scope of this essay,
X-Margin effectively allows traders to maintain custody of their funds with an
authorized 3rd-party custodian, such as Coinbase Custody, BitGo, or Anchorage,
and provide exchanges cryptographic guarantees that the underlying collateral
is available in case it needs to be liquidated. X-Margin nets out all of a
traders’ longs and shorts, further increasing capital efficiency.

This approach is novel, and is only enabled by recent breakthroughs in
cryptography, and is untested. However, it’s beautifully simple in its
approach, and [makes sense on a first principles
basis](https://medium.com/@xmarginclearing/zero-knowledge-technology-
disintermediation-without-decentralization-f2f2b77a27f1 "Zero Knowledge
Technology"). However, non-custodial approaches suffer from a notable
drawback: they cannot offer leverage, whereas traditional prime brokers offer
leverage as a core part of their product offerings. Moreover, prime brokers
natively offer delayed clearing and settlement, a feature that traders from
traditional markets have come to expect.

Because most traders expect both leverage and delayed clearing services from
their prime brokers, traditional prime brokers have a meaningful advantage
over non-custodial clearinghouses. However, it’s unclear how this will play
out.

### DISALLOWING EXTREME LEVERAGE

One common
[criticism](https://twitter.com/QWQiao/status/1238963622648467456?s=20
"Twitter ") of the current market structure is that the derivatives
exchanges—specifically via perpetual swap contracts—offer too much
instantaneous leverage. BitMEX pioneered this by offering 100x leverage, and
FTX and Binance have since one-upped BitMEX by offering 101x and 125x
respectively. For context, with 100x leverage, a ~0.7% move against the
position will cause liquidation.

It’s unclear how many traders trade with this much leverage. In May of 2019,
BitMEX disclosed that the average trader trades with
[~25x](https://blog.bitmex.com/bitmex-leverage-statistics-april-2019/ "Bitmex
Blog") leverage, but it’s unclear how this has evolved since.

Will the exchanges cut back? Probably not. BitMEX has a [shark
tank](https://twitter.com/zhusu/status/1238435521417773056?s=20 "Twitter") in
the office. They take pride in being ruthless. Obviously FTX and Binance offer
more leverage just to say they offer more. Coupled with the fact that these
exchanges are generally unregulated and are spread across a variety of
jurisdictions, it’s hard to see them disallowing actions that their customers
demand.

### CIRCUIT BREAKERS

Another way to mitigate these problems is to introduce circuit breakers. If
venues simply stop processing trades for 15-60 minutes—while still allowing
for deposits and withdrawals—that allows arbitrageurs time to shuttle assets
between exchanges.

However, given how heterogeneous the major trading venues are across many
dimensions— geography, customer segments, products traded, and more—it seems
very unlikely that the exchanges will ever agree on a global circuit-breaker
provision.

Huobi, one of the largest derivatives exchanges based in China, just
[announced](https://www.theblockcrypto.com/linked/59210/huobis-derivative-
platform-now-includes-a-circuit-breaker-function "The Block Crypto") a new
feature that they call a circuit breaker. However, it’s not a circuit breaker
in the strict sense of the definition. It’s just a mechanism to space out
liquidations over a few thresholds, rather than liquidating users at one point
in time.

### RFQs FOR LARGE LIQUIDATIONS

Liquidations typically occur via indiscriminate market orders. Market makers
do not know how large the liquidations will be in advance. As liquidations
tick up, market makers naturally widen their spreads. This increases
volatility.

Instead, exchanges could hold a programmatic auction for the collateral via
Request For Quote (RFQ). This could take place over the course of a few
seconds.

While market makers’ ability to participate would be limited by the collateral
they have available on the exchange that’s conducting the auction, this would
nonetheless reduce volatility. To understand why, consider the difference
between placing a $30M market order for ETH and asking a professional trading
desk like Cumberland, Galaxy, or Jump for a quote for $30M of ETH. Clearly the
latter will result in better execution because those firms have specialized
tools to intelligently consume liquidity across every venue around the world.

Moving to a programmatic RFQ model would likely achieve similar results for
liquidations.

### Implementing Tech Upgrades

Many of the smartest people working in crypto realize that in order for crypto
to mature from a fringe idea to a mainstream asset class, the underlying
technologies must support greater throughput and lower latency. There are a
lot of approaches to achieving these properties, each with a unique set of
trade-offs. Below, I’ll touch on each of those approaches with a specific
focus on how they would perform during heightened periods of market volatility
where capital needs to quickly flow between venues, and often in a somewhat
unidirectional manner. By unidirectional capital flow, I mean that capital is
likely to quickly flow to individual venues (because that venue has the widest
price discrepancy), but is unlikely to quickly flow back.

### LIGHTNING NETWORK

The problem with the Lightning Network (LN) is that channels must be fully
collateralized by both counterparties ahead of time, and pre-filling channels
is capital intensive.

Moreover, it’s not clear LN would actually solve the underlying problems.
While it’s not really feasible to measure precisely how many BTC transactions
were just shuttling money between exchanges on March 12, it’s generally
estimated that 15-30% of transactions are traders shuttling money between
exchanges. On a day like March 12th, this percentage should be higher than
normal. On March 12th, about 750,000 BTC were moved on chain. With 10 major
venues, that’s about 100 channels that need to be collateralized in both
directions. What economic reason do exchanges have to pre-commit tens of
thousands of BTC to pre-funded channels, especially when those channels are
unnecessary 99.9% of the time?

While LN would accelerate the first few arbitrages, arbitrageurs would exhaust
channel liquidity quickly.

### SIDE CHAINS

Side chains theoretically solve both the throughput and latency problems.
However, despite the fact that people have been discussing side chains since
~2014, they’re still not being used to a meaningful degree.

Blockstream launched the [Liquid sidechain](https://blockstream.com/liquid/
"Liquid") more than 12 months ago. Today, it has less than [1,000
BTC](https://liquid.net/ "Liquid"), and fewer than 1,000 transactions per day.
While some exchanges are integrated with it, a few of the major exchanges are
not, including major ones like Coinbase, Kraken, Binance, and FTX.

Why aren’t exchanges supporting Liquid? While it’s impossible to know with
100% certainty, the most likely reason is that they don’t trust each other.

Because of the inherent limitations of Bitcoin script, it has thus far been
impossible to produce a trust-minimized side chain. Instead, Liquid uses an
11/15 multi-sig, where the 11 parties are known entities, primarily exchanges.
But... the exchanges don’t trust each other.

Why don’t they trust each other? Because in the event of extreme volatility
and market dislocations, it becomes rational for 11 of the exchanges to
collude and steal BTC from other exchanges. The exchange business is brutally
competitive, and given the fact that the exchanges operate across so many
jurisdictions, the victim(s) would likely not have recourse.

Until researchers figure out how to develop a trust-minimized sidechain for
Bitcoin, I’m skeptical of broad-based side chain adoption for BTC. And while
it is theoretically possible to use Keep’s [tBTC](https://tbtc.network/
"tBTC") along with some of Ethereum’s more advanced scaling solutions, that
introduces a lot of compounding technical risk. For example, if tBTC is
flowing around on a [low-latency Skale chain](http://skale.network "Skale
Network"), how long do exchanges need to wait before accepting the compounding
technical risk of tBTC and Skale (as opposed to a native Bitcoin transaction)?
Given the lack of adoption of Lightning Network by exchanges thus far, it’s
going to be years before exchanges underwrite these risks.

### MARGINAL IMPROVEMENTS

There are lots of marginal improvements available, including
[batching](https://blog.coinbase.com/coinbase-rolls-out-bitcoin-transaction-
batching-5f6d09b8b045 "Coinbase blog "), and upcoming improvements such as
Schnorr signatures and Taproot. However, during a period of high volatility,
batching is not an option because traders want immediate withdrawals. This
also limits the efficacy of gains as a result of Schnorr and Taproot.

These are the most commonly discussed avenues for scaling Bitcoin. Next, I’ll
turn to Ethereum and smart contract platforms more broadly.

### SHARDING

While sharding theoretically scales infinitely, in practice it will not. The
core problem with sharding is that each cross-shard transaction requires one
transaction on both the sending and receiving shards. Therefore, as the
percentage of transactions that are cross-shard approach 100%, the global
throughput of the system approaches that of a single shard. Furthermore,
cross-shard transactions increase latency. This is problematic for a few
reasons:

If all the exchanges just use a single shard in order to avoid cross-shard
transactions...that is the same as the status quo.

If all the exchanges use different shards, then a huge percentage of
transactions are cross-shard, limiting the benefits of sharding.

In an ideal world, each exchange would place ~1% of traders’ deposit accounts
on 100 separate shards, and as traders shuttle assets around, exchanges would
move traders to deposit addresses that are also on the same shard. Given how
little the exchanges coordinate today (because exchanges are directly
competitive, and generally do not cooperate), and that this kind of a system
requires substantially more coordination than the Lightning Network or Liquid,
I’m doubtful something like this is feasible.

Practically, the likely outcome is somewhere between the 2nd and 3rd scenarios
described above. But it’s still unclear how any of this will actually work in
practice, and what the second- and third-order consequences are. It’s going to
take years after sharding is out to really model these flows correctly, and
figure out if and how they can be optimized further.

These challenges are further compounded by the growth of DeFi. As liquidity
pools in protocols like Uniswap, Stableswap, Shell Protocol, FutureSwap, and
others grow, they will either centralize on a single shard (lower throughput),
or fragment across many shards (lower liquidity per pool). The same is true of
money markets like Compound and Lendf.me. As these pools fragment and users
initiate multiple transactions across many shards to do what they would
otherwise do in a single transaction today, the practical benefits of sharding
become murky.

Note that the sharding framework applies to Cosmos Zones and Polkadot
Parachains.

### OPTIMISTIC ROLLUPS

The vanilla optimistic rollups (OR) design only addresses the problem of
throughput, and not of latency, because OR still relies on Ethereum Layer 1.

Furthermore, in order to even increase aggregate throughput, all of the
exchanges need to agree to move into a single OR chain. If each exchange
manages its own OR chain, the net result is likely to be comparable to a
sharded chain in which 100% of transactions are cross-shard transactions
because traders have to withdraw from one OR chain and send to another. There
may be market makers who try to bridge OR chains, but they will need to create
transactions on both OR chains, and because of the 1-2 week withdrawal delay
in OR, will quote wide spreads due to high cost of capital (market makers do
not want to speculate on the price of ETH-USD, and so will borrow ETH to
provide liquidity).

However, there are variations of the vanilla OR design with additional
improvements. With Skale’s [BLS roll
up](https://skale.network/blog/introducing-bls-rollup/ "BLS Rollup"), for
example, latency is reduced to ~1 second. Using Matter Labs’ [zk
sync](https://medium.com/matter-labs/introducing-zk-sync-the-missing-link-to-
mass-adoption-of-ethereum-14c9cea83f58 "Zk Sync"), traders receive instant
cryptographic confirmation of transactions in the OR chain that settle onto
the main chain later. However, even these solutions don’t address the problem
of bridging shards and/or OR chains.

Therefore, unless all the exchanges agree on a single design OR framework,
it’s unlikely to see this approach solve the core problem. As noted above in
the sharding section, I’m skeptical that this will occur.

### SCALING LAYER 1

The beauty of the Bitcoin and Ethereum models is that they expose a single,
higher-level abstraction—with a single trust model—for application developers.
Bitcoin and Ethereum are just a single database that apps can read and write
from and to. That’s it. Apps don’t worry about any other abstractions like
channels, new liquidity constraints, new trust models, or additional latency
challenges. Apps just read and write from a single source of truth. It’s a
[beautifully simple abstraction](https://multicoin.capital/2019/07/30/the-
world-computer-should-be-logically-centralized/ "The World Computer Should be
Logically Centralized "), and one that every Web2 developer understands.

[Solana](http://solana.com "Solana") is the only team building a new Layer 1
chain that’s hyper focused on scaling Layer 1 with thousands of concurrent
validators. Today, it currently processes upwards of 50,000 transactions per
second with around 400ms block times.

The problem that Solana faces isn’t technical, but social. It’s a new chain,
and therefore will take a few years to earn the community’s trust and prove
itself in the real world. Existing exchanges and DeFi protocols are rightfully
hesitant to switch. But, as existing Layer 1 networks continue to falter under
load—as they did on March 12—I expect that developers who are thinking about
building web-scale experiences will begin to look to other chains that are
purpose-built for performance.

## Conclusion

Scaling blockchains is a multifaceted challenge. There are many market and
technical approaches, each with unique trade offs. I am increasingly skeptical
of theoretical approaches that have been known for years, but unproven, and am
instead focused on newer approaches, both in terms of the development of
market infrastructure such as prime brokerage, and in new technology such as
optimistic rollups and new Layer 1’s.

Although it’s clear that the core problems will not be solved in the near
future either via market structure or technical changes, I don’t expect
another March 12th like event in the near term. Why? Simply because the move
was so large and so fast that it wiped out a ton of leverage. There is a lot
less leverage in the system now, reducing the risk of cascading liquidations
and market dislocations.

However, until these problems are addressed, the same thing can—and probably
will—happen again.

Inertia is potent, and the current market structure is complex and difficult
to change. But existing market participants recognize the limitations of the
current system—the system will break again when stressed—and therefore they
will push the system to evolve as better options become available.

 **Disclosure:** _Multicoin Capital has invested in Tagomi, Skale, Solana, and
Keep._

+ Show More

[Read NextMarch 12: The Day Crypto Market Structure Broke (Part 1)
](/2020/03/17/march-12-the-day-crypto-market-structure-broke/)

![Kyle
Samani](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/4OF6ywwNnbQLmD5qsIQ9kF/29aa033b59f51bc65fff3729e6948fe4/kyle_samani__2_.jpg)

By [Kyle Samani](/about#225b2112-7be1-5fc9-8755-db7e245ba5a5)

[@kylesamani](https://twitter.com/KyleSamani)

More Tags

[Writing](/blog/category/blog/)[Featured](/blog/category/featured/)[Podcasts](/podcasts/)[Videos](/videos/)

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER FOR THE BEST INSIGHTS IN CRYPTO

[![phoenix](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/72L5sEuJXOA7PvWBZM540E/27909d6ff5cda80158665ca43514b11c/phoenix_logo_white.svg)Subscribe](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)

* * *

  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)

  * [Podcasts](/podcasts/)
  * [Videos](/videos/)
  * [Subscribe](https://multicoin.capital/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

### GET IN TOUCH

We’re always looking for compelling ideas, business, and partnership
opportunities. We also enjoy reading your feedback. If you’re submitting a
business proposal, please include a clear description and any resources that
could help us evaluate your opportunity.

[hello@multicoin.capital](mailto:hello@multicoin.capital)

* * *

![Multicoin
Capital](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

## Multicoin Capital

©2017-2021 Multicoin Capital. All Rights Reserved.

