[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Meet our latest venture: Fetch.AI

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

[mc4wp_form id='4618']

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/blog-
post-9.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/) [Lawrence Lundy
Joins Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/)

April 2016  

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/blog-
post-7.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-vc-to-
hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/) [Outlier
Ventures Becomes First VC To Hire ‘Head of Crypto-Economics’ With Appointment
of Eden Dhaliwal](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-
vc-to-hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/)

August 2017  

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Meet our latest venture: Fetch.AI

Posted by Meet our latest venture: Fetch.AI - March 2018

[ __](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://outlierventures.io/meet-
our-latest-venture-fetch-ai) [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://outlierventures.io/meet-
our-latest-venture-fetch-ai&title=Meet our latest venture: Fetch.AI) [
__](https://twitter.com/share?url=https://outlierventures.io/meet-our-latest-
venture-fetch-ai&text=Meet our latest venture: Fetch.AI) [
__](https://telegram.me/share/url?url=https://outlierventures.io/meet-our-
latest-venture-fetch-ai&text=Meet our latest venture: Fetch.AI)

## **INTRODUCTION**

## Firstly it’s a great pleasure to finally be able to talk about this
project. At Outlier Ventures we have been working intensively with the team
(in stealth) for over 14 months, the longest of any of our advisory projects
to date. Because it’s been ‘dark’ during that time, except for a few select
enterprise partners, it has created a lot of mystique and curiosity. We can’t
wait to begin to open up the process to the wider world and shed light on one
of the most eagerly anticipated projects of 2018.

## But let’s start with making a big statement which I fully appreciate is an
often overused and generally abused marketing term: **but this is genuinely
next generation distributed ledger tech.**



For the first time we can genuinely say we have not **smart contracts** but
instead a **smart ledger**.

To date intelligence, even rudimentary and deterministic yes / no, is a
largely unaffordable and unscalable promise left to others to realise on top
of deliberately **dumb ledgers** , through ‘smart’ contracts and oracles.

Anyone looking to use the current iterations of dumb ledgers for anything
complex, dynamic or predictive (let alone for fully autonomous systems) will
be left wanting. Burdensome, expensive, limited in throughput and worse
littered with redundancy today it simply doesn’t meet many organisations’
ambitions.

The fact you must carry out the same expensive and inefficient computations
every time you want to make a decision, and subsequent action, even if a
similar process has been carried out before on the network (to anyone with a
machine learning background) this seems wholly illogical.

This was in fact the starting point for the Fetch.ai team. Made up of over 20
machine learning experts, including early investors and developers from
Deepmind (the AI company acquired by Google), who at the beginning of 2017
looked to blockchain technologies to support autonomous systems of drones.

**WHAT DO AUTONOMOUS SYSTEMS NEED?**

Firstly, multi-stakeholder autonomous systems, as envisaged for say
transportation, simply must to be decentralized.

Both because of the safety & security vulnerabilities of a central point of
failure and attack. But also because reliance on any one central 3rd party
means conceding to an unpalatable platform monopoly.

That aside, this decentralised web architecture must support; data discovery,
dynamic virtual proximity of data & objects, as well as predictive
functionality. It needs to allow emergent intelligence (rather than top down)
as well organic market making: where autonomous agents work on behalf of
individuals, collectives, devices and / or organisation sometimes
simultaneously.

These agents must be imbued with the ability to transact, pay tax, be insured
and enter into legal agreements. They must become fully able economic digital
citizens, otherwise known as **Autonomous Economic Agents (AEA).**

**THE FETCH APPROACH**

Fetch refers to itself as a ‘decentralised digital world’. One where
autonomous software agents perform **useful economic work**.

These AEAs exchange value and perform specialised tasks for their owners and
each other within a shared **Open Economic Framework (OEF)** , developed with
academics from Cambridge & Sheffield Universities, England.

This includes services such as: _the provisioning of data for decisioning, the
trading of excess capacity, energy, computation, or the storage, transfer and
transportation of digital or physical assets. And that’s just the start._

Importantly both the AEAs, and the ledger they carry out their business on,
learn everytime they do so whilst building up levels of reputation and trust.
This allows the system in aggregate to get better and more efficient at each
job for the benefit of the market as a whole. In fact, because the ledger
becomes a market of markets (all evolved bottom up) it allows for new
correlations to be discovered by the AEAs themselves, expanding economic
activity potentially leading to new levels of growth.

This happens because of a unique blend of ledger technology that borrows from
blockchains and innovations in directed acyclic graphs (DAGs) to deliver both
high performance, at near zero cost transactions but with a consensus
mechanism called **Useful Proof-of-Work.**

It has been designed day one to be easily interfaced with existing systems,
devices and databases (as they are today) through standard APIs allowing nodes
to simply plug into the Fetch Network and markets to self-form from the bottom
up.

The Fetch technology is governed by a non-profit (Singaporean) FETCH.AI
Foundation, and is underpinned by a series of patents, for example in Smart
Ledgers, AEAs and High Velocity Token technology but that is made available
under an open software license. Importantly, this allows anyone, anywhere to
join this new and inclusive digital economy.

Whilst the system inherently encourages the opening of data silos, it also
allows for proprietary intelligence to be developed and sold through AEA
marketplaces either by people or other AEAs on their behalf. Whereby AEAs,
rather than data alone, become business models in their own right.

Furthermore this is **not theoretical** : the technology is up and running
today (albeit in early form) with a number of active AEAs busily navigating
this new digital world with the code released on github over the coming
months.

**TEAM**

Well as you can imagine, this is an incredibly ambitious task which everyone
should rightfully be sceptical of until proven otherwise. And had we not spent
the last 14 months working closely with them team and seen the tech working
with our own every eyes, we likely wouldn't have believed it. However the more
you learn about the team and their background the more confident you become in
the project. The heroes of this have largely been hidden away from maelstrom
that is crypto, until now.

Below is a teaser of some of their backgrounds but they will increasingly be
profiled online and at events over the coming months in the build up to their
anticipated token sale later this year.

  * **Humayun Sheikh, Co-founder & CEO** Innovation entrepreneur founding investor in DeepMind
  * **Toby Simpson, Co-founder & CTO** Artificial life, AI and distributed agent-based virtual world pioneer
  * **Thomas Hain, Chief Scientific Officer Professor** at Sheffield University, established scientist in advanced machine learning and AI
  * **Jonathan Ward, Senior ML scientist** Highly cited researcher in AI with PHD from UCL
  * **Troels Rønnow, Senior Software Engineer** Scientist and innovator, co-authored 35 patent applications
  * **Arthur Meadows, Head of Operations** International experience in software startups, MBA from Judge, Cambridge
  * **Melvyn Weeks, Economic Advisor** Assistant Professor in Economics at University of Cambridge

**PLACE IN CONVERGENCE ECOSYSTEM STACK**

Fetch is a fundamental component in The Convergence Ecosystem TM at the
‘Process, Analyse & Automate Layer’: **decentralized machine learning**.

We believe Fetch is building a critical piece of automation technology for the
new era of decentralized infrastructure. In order to execute on this vision
and the performance requirements, Fetch has needed to move down the stack into
the Authenticate, Validate and Secure Layer to build a new ledger and a
consensus mechanism.

We believe there will be numerous ledgers, consensus mechanisms and other
decentralised protocols co-existing to serve different use cases and
customers. We expect Fetch to partner and work with other decentralised
infrastructure providers offering complementary technologies and protocols to
fulfil the vision of a decentralized future.

![Meet our latest venture: Fetch.AI Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/convergence.png)Outlier Ventures convergence stack

**WHAT NEXT**

The project is currently being opened up to a select group of industry
partners however intends to officially launch at a key crypto event here in
Europe (in March)…

You can find their website at [Fetch.ai](http://Fetch.ai) (which will
increasingly add more content inc. whitepaper) and engage with the team in
[Telegram](https://t.me/fetch_ai)

Oh yeah, get excited. Very excited.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

