[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/381c444a0db5&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Dapper
Labs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*4qrJW34TWRKo2UlCo9IqbQ.png)](https://medium.com/dapperlabs?source=post_page
-----381c444a0db5--------------------------------)

Published in

[Dapper Labs

](https://medium.com/dapperlabs?source=post_page-----
381c444a0db5--------------------------------)

[![Dapper
Labs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*4qrJW34TWRKo2UlCo9IqbQ.png)](/@hellodapper?source=post_page
-----381c444a0db5--------------------------------)

[Dapper Labs](/@hellodapper?source=post_page-----
381c444a0db5--------------------------------)

Follow

Oct 2, 2019

·

6 min read

#  **Meet the winners of the Cheeze Wizards Hackathon**

## Check out all the tools, apps, and features the community created for
Cheeze Wizards!

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*4P0y4YTF1We7-H6_fi-uOQ.png)

[Cheeze Wizards](https://t.co/bYlc0f5Ox2) is designed with
[composability](/nfty-news/designing-for-composability-in-crypto-6e138790a7d6)
in mind. That means anyone can build on top of the game to create their own
tools and features.

By keeping tournament logic on-chain, developers can create their own
tournaments on top of the existing ruleset to leverage the built-in business
model. By using [Alchemy](https://alchemyapi.io/), developers can pair the
Cheeze Wizards smart contracts with their own APIs, making it easier than ever
to build third-party experiences.

Blockchain games can create portals into decentralized finance, Decentralized
Autonomous Organizations (DAOs), and other blockchain building blocks. Many
users are drawn to games as an accessible way to experience new technology.
Cheeze Wizards gives the crypto developers something to experiment and learn
with, an event to rally the crypto community around, and an opportunity to
bring liquidity to popular smart contracts like Augur and 0x.

To showcase the Cheeze Wizards composability, Dapper Labs hosted a global
online Cheeze Wizards hackathon from August 1st to September 15th. That
hackathon spawned plenty of interesting projects, including native-wallets to
hold your Cheeze Wizards, options to split the Big Cheeze, a way for the top
players in your party to organize their own DAO, and more!

# Meet the hackathon winners!

We brought an all-star lineup of judges for the Cheeze Wizards Hackathon:
[Fred Wilson](https://twitter.com/fredwilson?lang=en), [Joe
Lubin](https://twitter.com/ethereumJoseph), [Linda
Xie](https://twitter.com/ljxie), [Arianna
Simpson](https://twitter.com/AriannaSimpson), [Ali
Yahya](https://twitter.com/ali01), and [Hsiao-Wei
Wang](https://twitter.com/icebearhww).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*8OVtdpcZMhdWjhXxC-CFfg.jpeg)

After much deliberation, the judges have selected three winners.

## First Place: CheezeDAO

Having trouble convincing the team that you should add a new member to your
exclusive party? Can’t seem to decide which party to target for battle?

CheezeDAO created a decentralized autonomous organization based on your skill
level. The better you are, the more voting power you have within your team.
Essentially, CheezeDAO is a leaderboard with your friends where the top player
can help guide decisions for the team.

Team members for CheezeDAO include: Jordan Lazaro Gustave, Rowan Van Ginkel,
Ernesto Boado, Oleksandr Tkach, and Andrei Kozlov

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*CFDK4E7Hi1g6GjV6QFGRuQ.png)

## Second Place: Cheeze of Insight

What’s the best spell to use against 1337wizerd9000? Great question!

Cheeze of Insight lets you analyze your opponent’s full battle history. By
studying their previous strategies you can detect patterns in their play style
and choose strategies to exploit those weaknesses. It’s the Art of War meets
dairy-based combat.

Team members for Cheeze of Insight include: Marcos Perona, Josh Dechant, Drew
Taylor, Stephen Shelton, and John May

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*CiqKkbREUpni0ZBsoMOghw.png)

## Third Place: Cheeze Wizards x Alice

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*CdPiBJqae_KygRcRoErVwQ.jpeg)

Picture this: you’re sauntering down the sidewalk at DevCon. You catch the eye
of someone wearing an Ethereum t-shirt (the one with the unicorn). You lock
gazes and freeze. Your fingers fly to your pocket, ready to unholster your
iPhone.

With the Cheeze Wizards x Alice mobile app, you can challenge people to a
Cheeze Wizards duel any time, any place, even on the street (just watch out
for innocent bystanders). This project lets you see an entire map of other
players that are in your area, so you can get straight to battling. Very cool!

Team members for Cheeze Wizards x Alice include: Mark Pereira and Hao Fu

# Category winners

##  **Third-party experiences: Cheeze Wizards x Alice**

Cheeze Wizards x Alice let’s you play Cheeze Wizards on mobile devices!

##  **Tools and features: Cheeze of Insight**

Cheeze of Insight analyzes your opponents’ spells and choices.

##  **Tournament and leagues: CheezXpress**

CheezXpress let’s you split the Big Cheeze grand prize with all your friends.

##  **0x Bounty winner: TokenTrove Cheeze Wizard Marketplace**

Use the TokenTrove Cheeze Wizard Marketplace to buy, trade, sell your Cheeze
Wizards.

# Runner ups

##  **CWStats team**

The CWStats tool is the easiest way to analyze your opponent’s next moves.
With a simple website you can look at the full history of past duels.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*nebAXWLXZr4KFa71GCnyng.png)

The CWStats team, Magnus Huttu and Ivan Vagunin

##  **Big Cheeze Tournament Gamble and Neutral Dragon Tournament team**

Thanks to this team, you can organize a local tournament by forking Cheeze
Wizards. The Neutral Dragon Tournament is taking the concept of the
decentralized tournament to the next level!

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*8FTld0BJTCwIJji7BAg-yw.jpeg)

The Big Cheeze Tournament Gamble and Neutral Dragon Tournament team includes
Chandramouli S, Manoj Vijayasekar, Gowtham Selvam, Arun K, Arun Kumar, Mithun
Vijayasekar, Srisha Pattabiraman, Muthukumaresh Muthuvel, Srinivas Chandan C,
and Leena Sonawane

# What’s next for Cheeze Wizards?

Dapper Labs will be working with the hackathon projects to get them on mainnet
for the official Cheeze Wizards launch on October 14th. We can’t wait for the
Cheeze Wizards community to enjoy the community-built experiences during the
tournament!

## Cheeze Wizards future is in good hands

As soon as we began creating Cheeze Wizards, we designed it as a foundation to
build from, one that enables the potential of composable applications. That
means developers and the community have an immense amount of agency in shaping
the future of Cheeze Wizards.

From runner up projects to early fans, we owe the growing Cheeze Wizards
community of creators and players an immense amount of gratitude. The results
have been tremendous — and we haven’t even launched yet.

We owe a special thanks to [Alchemy](https://alchemyapi.io/) for working on
the Cheeze Wizards API. The Alchemy team hopped in right away dozens of times
when our hackers needed help.

A huge thank you to the entire CoinList team, who were deeply involved from
beginning to end. We loved working with their stellar crew: Regan, Justin,
Shreyas, and Mike.

And of course, we can’t forget the line-up of judges and partners who rallied
around the Cheeze Wizards Hackathon. We couldn’t have done it without the
support from the following companies.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*Qjt1TGFM49P2quNiTejV2A.png)

Finally, thanks to every single developer who participated in this hackathon
and showcased what true composability looks like for a blockchain game. We
believe the open worlds that blockchain enables is an exciting future, and
every person who spent their free time over six weeks building incredible
experiences for Cheeze Wizards made that future a little brighter.

We can’t wait for the Cheeze Wizards community to enjoy your hard work.

# Want to join the Cheeze Wizards tournament?

If you want to take part in the first-ever Cheeze Wizards Tournament, plus
enjoy all the incredible experiences our community hackers have built, [be
sure to sign
up](https://www.cheezewizards.com/?utm_source=blog&utm_campaign=cwlaunch) and
start summoning your Cheeze Wizard army.

## Take part in the Cheeze Wizards open beta!

Cheeze Wizards is set to launch October 14th. We’ve begun our closed beta,
which includes a select few external invites, but during Devcon (October 8th
to 11th), we’ll be opening up the beta on Rinkeby for anyone to play!

To take part in Cheeze Wizards beta, sign up for Cheeze Wizards!

[ **> Sign up to experience the magic of Cheeze
Wizards**](https://t.co/bYlc0f5Ox2) **!**

\--

2

\--

\--

2

## [More from Dapper Labs](/dapperlabs?source=post_page-----
381c444a0db5--------------------------------)

The serious business of fun and games on the blockchain

[Read more from Dapper Labs](/dapperlabs?source=post_page-----
381c444a0db5--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Alex
Ferri](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*svvpPbgJ80x0bsyL.jpg)](/@alexferri?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Alex Ferri

](/@alexferri?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## NA LCS Week 1: 10 bans, 2 Cloud9s, 1 tough tree

](/@alexferri/na-lcs-week-1-10-bans-2-cloud9s-1-tough-
tree-a6cd8df8bda1?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Erica
Lindquist](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*1bVXtyn2TbBi48gCZH3rKg.jpeg)](/@ericalindquist?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Erica Lindquist

](/@ericalindquist?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

in

[RPGuide

](https://medium.com/rpguide?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Making a sad character

![Image: An ocean wave. Because I don’t want to fill this post with post too
many images of crying people. The ocean is close
enough.](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*G52Hmi-572LO1n6mSRwbsw.jpeg)](/rpguide/making-
a-sad-character-f0fab0b36dc5?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Piyaligiri](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*tJq6wPn3dgM-
Ip2BYcAzEg.jpeg)](/@piyaligiri69?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[Piyaligiri

](/@piyaligiri69?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## EDUCATION: Life of a game designer

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*HArrH5AHU0zunSho5PKQ7A.jpeg)](/@piyaligiri69/education-
life-of-a-game-designer-625ed9400b83?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Dan
Clarke](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*eB_xVbz5WY6SUz461OzGiQ.png)](/@dan_or_dc?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Dan Clarke

](/@dan_or_dc?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## MAFIA III

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*XwFOER264wN-
YaiePbKGJg.png)](/@dan_or_dc/mafia-iii-317f68e638e6?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[[![Elijahbadert](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*BvO_QG47hHvA_aGN)](/@OldSchoolRS?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Elijahbadert

](/@OldSchoolRS?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## The Xbox developer makes fun of a new round-generation role play

](/@OldSchoolRS/the-xbox-developer-makes-fun-of-a-new-round-generation-role-
play-48f7a1dba68c?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Logan
Noble](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*u2au2JXQw8JdyZYEObaAqw.jpeg)](/@logannobleauthor?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Logan Noble

](/@logannobleauthor?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[Game Loot

](https://medium.com/game-loot?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Catchin’ Death-Returns: Logan’s Favorite Games of 2021

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*OtjbLgKSDle35oSKUhABhw.jpeg)](/game-
loot/catchin-death-returns-logan-s-favorite-games-
of-2021-3e90428a34e?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Chrono Adventures
Official](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*jlOMPNjvsxyeDdMT4FC2wg.png)](/@chronoadventuresofficial?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Chrono Adventures Official

](/@chronoadventuresofficial?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## A gift from a fan..

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*brWiYCOD9Ly5LbzejDl3lw.png)](/@chronoadventuresofficial/a-gift-
from-a-fan-a6767a600beb?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Mabel
Algeranoff](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@mabelalgeranoff?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Mabel Algeranoff

](/@mabelalgeranoff?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## The Truth Regarding game Will Be Exposed.

](/@mabelalgeranoff/the-truth-regarding-game-will-be-exposed-
db810b74ccd4?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----381c444a0db5--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
381c444a0db5--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
381c444a0db5--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
381c444a0db5--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
381c444a0db5--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----381c444a0db5--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----381c444a0db5--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdapperlabs%2Fmeet-
the-winners-of-the-cheeze-wizards-hackathon-381c444a0db5&source=post_page
--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Dapper
Labs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*4qrJW34TWRKo2UlCo9IqbQ.png)](/@hellodapper)

[

## Dapper Labs

](/@hellodapper)

800 Followers

The serious business of fun and games on the blockchain

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F92fd7014333&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdapperlabs%2Fmeet-
the-winners-of-the-cheeze-wizards-
hackathon-381c444a0db5&newsletterV3=6544777e30d2&newsletterV3Id=92fd7014333&user=Dapper+Labs&userId=6544777e30d2&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![RedKite](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*YaR3ITkmcyC4rGlc6pbrQg.png)](/@redkitenft?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------45065b57_f8e4_4cb4_855a_d4b5450b0681-------)

[RedKite

](/@redkitenft?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
45065b57_f8e4_4cb4_855a_d4b5450b0681-------)

## GoodGhosting and RedKite Partnering

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*72_D2uzr_d0cz8DSoQf8Tg.png)](/@redkitenft/goodghosting-
and-redkite-partnering-2ed16cf9b800?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------45065b57_f8e4_4cb4_855a_d4b5450b0681-------)

[[![Ellis](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*sJpDzV6NvzzSInlW_ZNh0A.png)](/@ellis_liu?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------45065b57_f8e4_4cb4_855a_d4b5450b0681-------)

[Ellis

](/@ellis_liu?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
45065b57_f8e4_4cb4_855a_d4b5450b0681-------)

in

[AWSt

](https://medium.com/awst?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------45065b57_f8e4_4cb4_855a_d4b5450b0681-------)

## What is an NFT (Non-Fungible Token)?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*YbPtbA-
pjdkRB0_rus1NOQ.jpeg)](/awst/what-is-an-nft-non-fungible-
token-4fc7c8eb4a92?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
45065b57_f8e4_4cb4_855a_d4b5450b0681-------)

[[![Degen
Blues](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*r42tvDm69vPPQiS0aJoVqw.png)](/@degenblues?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------45065b57_f8e4_4cb4_855a_d4b5450b0681-------)

[Degen Blues

](/@degenblues?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
45065b57_f8e4_4cb4_855a_d4b5450b0681-------)

## Degen Blues launches groundbreaking musical NFT collection that reacts to
on-chain data, powered by…

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*4rPkD9siuVc_oBMhZKmdQQ.png)](/@degenblues/degen-
blues-launch-b50614a32137?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------45065b57_f8e4_4cb4_855a_d4b5450b0681-------)

[[![MyLime](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*nsQVA7hwSbKKJbFrSiKgZA.png)](/@mylime?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------45065b57_f8e4_4cb4_855a_d4b5450b0681-------)

[MyLime

](/@mylime?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
45065b57_f8e4_4cb4_855a_d4b5450b0681-------)

## Rolex: another victim in the Far West Metaverse

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*zWZ85_cP38AwiU-
BX5-LGw.jpeg)](/@mylime/rolex-another-victim-in-the-far-west-
metaverse-1919ae52e2ad?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
45065b57_f8e4_4cb4_855a_d4b5450b0681-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

