[ ![0xb10c logo](/0xb10c.png) ](/)

# 0xB10C

Bitcoin Developer

[Blog](/) [Mempool Observations](/mempool-observations) [Projects](/projects)
[Talks](/talks)

â˜€  requires JS

##  mempool.observer (2019 version)

#####

Saturday, June 1, 2019

The [mempool.observer](https://mempool.observer) website displays
visualizations about my Bitcoin mempool. For example, a visualization of my
current mempool and the historical mempool of my node is shown. The idea is to
provide information about the current mempool state to a Bitcoin user with a
seemingly stuck and longtime-unconfirmed transaction. Additionally, the site
can be used for double-checking feerate estimates before sending a
transaction.

![mempool.observer logo](/data/projects/mempool-observer/logo.png)

I started working on the 2019 version in April 2019. The 2019 version is a
full rewrite of mempool.observer - only the idea and license remained. The
goal is to offer way more than the 2017 version did, but built on a foundation
with performance and maintainability in mind as this was a problem in the 2017
version. Timothy Lim [@timothyylim](https://twitter.com/timothyylim) helped
out by contributing to the frontend.

![current mempool card on mempoool.observer](/data/projects/mempool-
observer/2019-screenshot-current-mempool.png) Screenshot: current mempool (on
a sunday morning)

[mempool.observer](https://mempool.observer/) [Source Code on
GitHub](https://github.com/0xB10C/memo)

In October 2020 I released the [Bitcoin Transaction
Monitor](https://mempool.observer/monitor) as a sub-project of
mempool.observer. This project is tracked on its [own page](/projects/bitcoin-
transaction-monitor).

> Intuitive way to visualize transaction backlogs by
> [@0xB10C](https://twitter.com/0xB10C?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw):
> <https://t.co/HQGZwoFRa1>
> [pic.twitter.com/zc6LLIoAgW](https://t.co/zc6LLIoAgW)
>
> -- ODELL (@ODELL) [June 14,
> 2019](https://twitter.com/ODELL/status/1139340150130036736?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw)

![historical mempool card on mempoool.observer](/data/projects/mempool-
observer/2019-screenshot-historical-mempool.png) Screenshot: The mempool over
the last two hours ![recent blocks card on
mempoool.observer](/data/projects/mempool-observer/2019-screenshot-recent-
blocks.png) Screenshot: recent blocks and the time between them

Enable JavaScript to view comments. Comments are privacy friendly and self-
hosted with [isso](https://posativ.org/isso/).

All text and images in this work are licensed under a [Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International
License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/) [![Creative Commons
License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-
sa/4.0/80x15.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)

#### Next

![Image for Timeline: Historical events in the development of
Bitcoin](/data/projects/bitcoin-dev-history/bitcoin-development-history.png)
[](/projects/bitcoin-dev-history/)

* * *

August 4, 2019

#### Timeline: Historical events in the development of Bitcoin

To fully understand the rationale behind the current state of Bitcoin
development, knowledge about historical events is essential. I created an
open-source project containing the data for a timeline of historical
developments in Bitcoin. Most data points are adopted from a talk [John
Newbery](https://twitter.com/jfnewbery) gave on the [History and Philosophy of
Bitcoin Development](https://www.meetup.com/BitDevsNYC/events/262321510/).
I've used this timeline in my blog post [The Incomplete History of Bitcoin
Development](/blog/004-the-incomplete-history-of-bitcoin-development/).

[](/projects/bitcoin-dev-history/)

#### Previous

![Image for mempool-dat](/data/projects/mempool-dat/header.png)
[](/projects/library-mempool-dat/)

* * *

May 16, 2019

#### mempool-dat

A Golang package that can deserialize Bitcoin Core's `mempool.dat` files. This
is a toy project. I developed this to learn more about Golang and the
`mempool.dat` file format by Bitcoin Core.

[](/projects/library-mempool-dat/)

[ ![logo stackexchange](/img/footer/stackexchange.svg)
](https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/users/63817/0xb10c) [ ![logo
linkedin](/img/footer/linkedin.svg) ](https://linkedin.com/in/0xb10c) [ ![logo
mastodon](/img/footer/mastodon.svg) ](https://x0f.org/@0xb10c) [ ![logo
twitter](/img/footer/twitter.svg) ](https://twitter.com/0xb10c) [ ![logo
keybase](/img/footer/keybase.svg) ](https://keybase.io/b10c) [ ![logo
github](/img/footer/github.svg) ](https://github.com/0xb10c) [ ![logo
rss](/img/footer/rss.svg) ](https://b10c.me/feed.xml) [ ![logo
reddit](/img/footer/reddit.svg) ](https://reddit.com/u/0xb10c) [ ![logo
mail](/img/footer/gmail.svg) ](mailto:0xb10c+b10c-me@gmail.com)

