[ ![0xb10c logo](/0xb10c.png) ](/)

# 0xB10C

Bitcoin Developer

[Blog](/) [Mempool Observations](/mempool-observations) [Projects](/projects)
[Talks](/talks)

â˜€  requires JS

##  mempool.observer (2017 version)

#####

Saturday, October 7, 2017

The [mempool.observer](https://mempool.observer) website displays statistics
about my Bitcoin mempool. This covers the 2017 version which I iterated on in
2019.

![mempool.observer logo of the 2017 version](/data/projects/mempool-
observer/2017-header-icon.png)

The mempool.observer website was my first open-source Bitcoin project. I
started working on it in mid-2017 and officially released it on the 7th of
October 2017. At the end of 2017, the Bitcoin transaction fees sky-rocketed
which resulted in a lot of traffic to my site. The high transaction fees were
caused by a flood of transactions as the price of bitcoin rose to $20.000. I
regularly ran into problems with long-running Python scripts due to querying
and processing mempool on a low-end VPS. Due to time constraints, I wasn't
able to improve the backend performance. This resulted in version 2017 of
mempool.observer dying down in 2018 due to not being maintained. I started
working on a [next version](/projects/mempool-observer-2019-version/) of the
site in 2020 with performance and maintainability as key goals.

[Source Code on GitHub for 2017
version](https://github.com/0xB10C/memo/tree/master-v1) [2017 version on
archive.ph](https://archive.ph/nNtsC)

![screenshot of the 2017 mempool chart](/data/projects/mempool-
observer/2017-screenshot-chart.jpg) Screenshot: Low-feerate transactions are
evicted from my mempool during the high-fee event in 2017. My mempool contains
more that 100k transactions.

> version 1.0.0 of memo is live!
> ðŸ‘“<https://t.co/9mQp1L4CzF><https://t.co/NMBMD3gMUX>
>
> -- mempool.observer (@mempoolobserver) [October 7,
> 2017](https://twitter.com/mempoolobserver/status/916463652131295233?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw)

Enable JavaScript to view comments. Comments are privacy friendly and self-
hosted with [isso](https://posativ.org/isso/).

All text and images in this work are licensed under a [Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International
License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/) [![Creative Commons
License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-
sa/4.0/80x15.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)

#### Next

![Image for transactionfee.info \(2018
version\)](/data/projects/transactionfee-info/2017-header.png)
[](/projects/transactionfee-info-2018-version/)

* * *

January 22, 2018

#### transactionfee.info (2018 version)

We build transactionfee.info in 2018 to raise awareness about the inefficient
use of block space by exchanges, services, and wallets. The project is a joint
effort with [Bitrefill](https://www.bitrefill.com/?utm_source=b10c_me) CEO
[@ziggamon](https://twitter.com/ziggamon).

[](/projects/transactionfee-info-2018-version/)

[ ![logo stackexchange](/img/footer/stackexchange.svg)
](https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/users/63817/0xb10c) [ ![logo
linkedin](/img/footer/linkedin.svg) ](https://linkedin.com/in/0xb10c) [ ![logo
mastodon](/img/footer/mastodon.svg) ](https://x0f.org/@0xb10c) [ ![logo
twitter](/img/footer/twitter.svg) ](https://twitter.com/0xb10c) [ ![logo
keybase](/img/footer/keybase.svg) ](https://keybase.io/b10c) [ ![logo
github](/img/footer/github.svg) ](https://github.com/0xb10c) [ ![logo
rss](/img/footer/rss.svg) ](https://b10c.me/feed.xml) [ ![logo
reddit](/img/footer/reddit.svg) ](https://reddit.com/u/0xb10c) [ ![logo
mail](/img/footer/gmail.svg) ](mailto:0xb10c+b10c-me@gmail.com)

