[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![Mending The Gap](/static/8ee4488a24e6c8603cb94f7e6b2ea923/2a43b/Nasa-
moon3.jpg)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

## Mending The Gap

By [Mihai Alisie](/blog/author/mihai-alisie/)

·

April 18, 2018

We are super excited to announce that [AKASHA](https://beta.akasha.world/) is
now accessible also from Mist and classic web browsers running the
[MetaMask](https://metamask.io/) and [IPFS Companion](https://github.com/ipfs-
shipyard/ipfs-companion#install) extensions!!! \o/ This release also marks an
important milestone because we are starting to close the gap between the
(usually slow) user experience on decentralized services vs (usually faster)
centralized ones. It’s quite magical, especially when considering how
antithetical the two approaches are.

The slow loading times marking the early alpha and beta versions are starting
to fade away as the codebase improves and the network grows stronger. The
latest release (0.7.0) named ***Mend The Gap*** includes many optimizations
and bug fixes that bring great improvements to the overall user experience.

The latest enhancements are even more noticeable in the [desktop
dapp](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases) but can be felt within
the [web dapp](https://beta.akasha.world/) performance as well. That being
said, we acknowledge that there is much left to do and we invite everyone to
join us in pushing the boundaries even further in this [odyssey of
discovery](https://blog.akasha.world/2017/05/03/akasha-odyssey-year-one/)!

**Give it a try for yourself and let us know your thoughts!**

### The Wake-Up Call

> _“The truth will set you free, but first it will piss you off.”_ ― Joe Klaas

[
![AKASHA](/static/fa4e13c9d532c1d22a2cd29023fe267d/1c72d/DachSJzVQAEED6C.jpg)
](/static/fa4e13c9d532c1d22a2cd29023fe267d/e5166/DachSJzVQAEED6C.jpg)

We are more optimistic than ever about the future of AKASHA, especially when
taking into consideration the current state of the web and the existential
problems faced by most social networks today. Looking back, it seems that
taking the unbeaten path of radical decentralization was a good decision.

From the atrocious [CLOUD
Act](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2018/03/responsibility-deflected-cloud-act-
passes) passed a few weeks ago to the [Facebook
meltdown](https://hackernoon.com/dear-mark-zuckerberg-dd5d7e767c21) and its
[congressional hearings](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-
switch/wp/2018/04/11/zuckerberg-facebook-hearing-congress-house-testimony), we
are witnessing a [paradigm
shift](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paradigm_shift) when it comes to the way
in which we share and communicate with each other online.

People are starting to question **“how”** and **“why”** the services they used
for years to keep in touch with their friends and loved ones are **“free”**.

[ ![AKASHA](/static/38b6cfc26034cc2294be7d1eec0a87fe/eac85/Duck-
Rabbit_illusion.jpg) ](/static/38b6cfc26034cc2294be7d1eec0a87fe/eac85/Duck-
Rabbit_illusion.jpg)

_Thomas Kuhn’s duck-rabbit optical illusion exemplifying how paradigm shifts
can cause one to see the same information in an entirely different way._

Unsurprisingly, no one seems to like the answer, aside from the service
operator(s) and various third parties that **thrive by spying on users** in a
[surveillance
capitalist](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Surveillance_capitalism) setup, also
known as the “[Big Other](http://www.shoshanazuboff.com/new/recent-
publications-and-interviews/big-other-surveillance-capitalism-and-the-
prospects-of-an-information-civilization/)”.

Fortunately, however, it’s not all doom and gloom.

On the bright(er) side, we believe that in the long term the current behavior
displayed by giants like Facebook is making things easier both for the users
and for us. In their rush to defend and justify the “Data Death Star” built
over _decades_ of user privacy erosion, it’s becoming clear to more and more
people that, **beyond the hype, decentralization is a real need - not just a
“want”**.

Luckily, we have started working on these problems for [some time
now](https://blog.akasha.world/2016/05/03/unveiling-akasha/) together with a
[worldwide community](https://blog.akasha.world/2018/02/10/akasha-beta-
emergence/) of passionate enthusiasts resonating with the idea of a better
Web.

Just as the social networks built around data centers and fueled by
surveillance capitalism business models are starting to crumble under their
own weight, a new generation of networks powered by the users themselves will
rise.

The dawn of a new information age is within reach.

### Okay, But How Is AKASHA Different From … ?

> _“Be the change that you wish to see in the world.”_ ― Mahatma Gandhi

[ ![AKASHA](/static/f9873f6f56eda9e020f4b732bc72deec/1c72d/logo-facebook-
virgin-radio-romania-800x506.jpg)
](/static/f9873f6f56eda9e020f4b732bc72deec/4b190/logo-facebook-virgin-radio-
romania-800x506.jpg)

We have been asked many times how AKASHA is different from a number of social
networks, including Facebook. In an attempt to summarize some of the biggest
differences, we arrived at the following list:

**Firstly, AKASHA does not track you**. **We all take privacy very seriously**
and strongly believe that your client-side data should be **private by
default**. This is why **both the web app and desktop app are free of
analytics software**.

**Secondly, AKASHA does not follow you around with pesky ads.** We believe
that **advertising is not a sustainable business model** because it ultimately
leads to **privacy erosion for the users.** This is why we are determined to
explore alternative business models.

**Thirdly, we take decentralization seriously** and strongly believe that it
is the only way forward for a healthy information-based society. This is why,
for example, **the web version has the IPFS part completely rewritten to
enable browser peer-to-peer communication.**

**Fourthly, we believe that people should own their digital identity and have
full control over it.** This is why your AKASHA identity key is generated
locally on your machine and accessible only to you.

**Fifthly, as an AKASHA user you are in full control of your information flow
and there is no middle-man or black-box algorithm deciding on your behalf what
information you’re entitled to see or not.** This is why the content is
rendered client-side according to the user’s preferences.

**Sixthly, this is not about competing with the “big guys” or building “the
next Facebook”. This is about creating a new channel of expression so the
people can keep the “big guys” in check.** In a similar vein, we fully
acknowledge that there is a long way to go until we can compete heads on with
giants like Facebook, but AKASHA can still be **a valuable alternative** in
the meantime - especially in times like these when **the problem is Facebook
itself**.

**Finally, AKASHA will not conduct an “ICO” just for the purpose of raising
money.** We are a self-funded and experiment-driven project and since
unveiling AKASHA [2 years ago](https://blog.akasha.world/2016/05/03/unveiling-
akasha/), we released 3 major dapps (alpha, beta, web) without outside
investments and plan on testing the code thoroughly before any “real” money
flows through it. **If there will be an “ICO” then it will be for a token that
actually solves an otherwise “unsolvable problem” in the overall system.**

On this note, **we recently had a breakthrough with the token layer** and we
are in the process of formalizing the ideas into a token framework alongside a
new UX that will be presented at the [EDCON conference](https://edcon.io/) in
Toronto.

Looking forward to seeing you there! \o/

### Towards A Better Web: Beta Status Update

> _“A concept is a brick. It can be used to build a courthouse of reason. Or
> it can be thrown through the window.”_ ― Gilles Deleuze

[ ![AKASHA](/static/4c729384734c02cf70c3a802f0e08cd8/1c72d/eclipse-1.jpg)
](/static/4c729384734c02cf70c3a802f0e08cd8/e5166/eclipse-1.jpg)

We are happy to say that, so far, the beta experiment is unfolding at a stable
pace without too many hiccups occurring. Our faucet is holding strong and sent
around ~2300 transactions to Ethereum addresses generated in-dapp.

From these 2300 vanilla Ethereum addresses, over 2000 decentralized identities
were created in the 0.6.2 release and each AKASHA identity publishing on
average one post.

This means a few things:

  * Amazingly, thousands of users have actually waited 30+ minutes to synchronize with the test network. Respect.
  * Following the synchronization, ~90%+ of users customized their profile and registered a username instead of using a simple vanilla ETH address. Coolest people on da blockchainz.
  * After creating an identity, ~90%+ of the users figured out how to manify AETH (transform the ERC20 token from one state to another) in order to post. NOICE.

It’s worth mentioning that these numbers were achieved in stress conditions as
the Rinkeby testnet has been under continuous spam attacks by a bot which has
been scanning public addresses and sending very small amounts of test ETH in
large batches for around two months now.

In case you wondered what was up with this post on Reddit, now you know:

[ ![AKASHA](/static/650445e9d7cb16decfb3ec1dfc936b69/fcda8/reddit-
karalabe.png) ](/static/650445e9d7cb16decfb3ec1dfc936b69/203d3/reddit-
karalabe.png)

Special thanks go to [Peter
Szilagyi](https://beta.akasha.world/#/0xd9c9cd5f6779558b6e0ed4e6acf6b1947e7fa1f3)
for his continued work on thwarting the bot’s impact on the overall network
and for ultimately making the network stronger against such tactics with this
[Pull Request](https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/pull/16494).

Moving up a layer to the AKASHA dapp, the prize for the best stress testing of
the 0.6.2 release goes to, again, Peter Szilagyi for the amazing experiment of
running **AKASHA at 11,000 meters’ altitude above China. Epic.**

[
![AKASHA](/static/909cc2b71362a9a3ac06d3a0aace2b45/1c72d/IMG_20180317_210939.jpg)
](/static/909cc2b71362a9a3ac06d3a0aace2b45/e5166/IMG_20180317_210939.jpg)*Looks
like the sky is * _NOT** the limit after all!_

**Before moving on, we’d like to thank everyone from the bottom of our hearts
for taking the time the time to play with AKASHA!! You’re awesome!** We hope
that you had a pleasant experience and that you’ll have a nice surprise in
terms of performance and stability with our newest 0.7 releases - both desktop
and web versions.

_Fingers crossed_ :)

### Enter The AKASHA Web Version

> _“Success is always a matter of some luck and timing.”_ ― Kathleen Kennedy

[
![AKASHA](/static/8ebb8afb78221c8e9ba424cabbad30f9/1c72d/comment_Yz1iaaHa3kHhhrtYvxXzOUtfQlj9kbP4.jpg)
](/static/8ebb8afb78221c8e9ba424cabbad30f9/08688/comment_Yz1iaaHa3kHhhrtYvxXzOUtfQlj9kbP4.jpg)

Thanks to the hard work of the team, AKASHA is now accessible also from Mist,
as well as all browsers running the Metamask and IPFS Companion extension. Big
ups go to
[Marius](https://beta.akasha.world/#/0x551df15db6f9f834c6b5795183190582452cb10c),
[Vali](https://beta.akasha.world/#/0x0ba43dd21e29343e09d4da66863b269ecf470108),
Bogdan, and
[Sever](https://beta.akasha.world/#/0xff394602183bd25727d8be0420203fa9958c920a)
for plowing through what seemed at times as an unending mountain of bugs in
order to get this historical release into your hands! \o/

We hope that the web version will encourage more users to give AKASHA a try,
helping us in the process to learn what the “breaking points” are and where
they are for a decentralized social network powered by Ethereum and IPFS.

**Let’s see how far can we take it!**

With this in mind, we invite everyone to join us because we need help with:

  * Stress testing the new smart contracts’ architecture and security
  * Stress testing the carrying capacity of the Ethereum network and blockchain
  * Stress testing the carrying capacity of the IPFS network
  * Testing our [crypto economic assumptions & incentives structures](https://blog.akasha.world/2017/11/14/new-horizons/)
  * Testing the new information architecture and UX/UI
  * [Collecting feedback](https://github.com/akashaproject/dapp/issues) for the main Ethereum chain deployment plan

These tests will ultimately come down to how much transactional output a
decentralized social network with many users generates, and how well the
Ethereum and IPFS networks can handle it.

If we can uncover insights and answers to questions such as “How far can we
push things?”, “Should we actively engage the Ethereum mining community for
raising the gas limits in anticipation of the main chain deployment?” and
“What would be the gas limit that allows AKASHA and the entire Ethereum
ecosystem to comfortably coexist on the same chain?” we think that we’ll be
well on our way to a successful launch - for everyone.

That being said, before jumping into the ether, beware: this is pioneering at
its very best, and through your involvement, you are all pioneers. Since this
is a beta, it comes with all the instability associated with early
experiments. Just as the first flight attempts were not necessarily safe or
comfortable - failures, glitches, and random errors should be expected here
too.

If, or rather when, you will stumble upon a problem, be a hero and [open an
issue!](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/issues) This way, you’re helping
us to improve the experience for everyone! \o/

And now, without further ado, here is how you can get started with the web
version:

#### Instructions For Web Pioneers

***Step 1a** Chrome users install the extensions:
[MetaMask](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/metamask/nkbihfbeogaeaoehlefnkodbefgpgknn)
& [IPFS Companion](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/ipfs-
companion/nibjojkomfdiaoajekhjakgkdhaomnch)

***Step 1b** Firefox users install the addons:
[MetaMask](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/ether-metamask/) &
[IPFS Companion](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/ipfs-
companion)

***Step 2** Create a MetaMask account by following their instructions

**Step 3** Visit [beta.akasha.world](https://beta.akasha.world/)

**Step 4** Set up your MetaMask on the Rinkeby test network

****Step 5** Unlock your MetaMask vault (if necessary) to log in and refresh
the page

**(*) Steps 1 and 2 can be skipped if you already have MetaMask installed**

**(*) In case the web app will display a white page please check if your
MetaMask extension is working properly**

More [detailed tutorials for the Web version can be found
here](https://akasha.helpscoutdocs.com/category/29-web) thanks to
[Sebastian](https://beta.akasha.world/#/0x5be16b64a86e067cd050d3cb655fb8495bac7e9b)!

On the other hand, the users preferring the desktop app experience should
follow the instructions below:

#### Instructions For Windows Pioneers

  * Download the [.exe installer](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases/download/0.7.2/AKASHA.Setup.0.7.2.exe) or the [.zip archive](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases/download/0.7.2/AKASHA-0.7.2-win.zip) from our [official beta GitHub repo](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases/tag/0.7.2)
  * Run the installer or extract the files contained in the .zip file
  * Open the AKASHA dapp and synchronize with the network
  * Create or [import](https://akasha.helpscoutdocs.com/article/16-how-to-migrate-accounts) an AKASHA identity (profile)
  * Log in and enjoy AKASHA

#### Instructions For Mac Pioneers

  * Download the [.dmg installer](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases/download/0.7.2/AKASHA-0.7.2.dmg) or the [.zip archive](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases/download/0.7.2/AKASHA-0.7.2-mac.zip) from our [official beta GitHub repo](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases/tag/0.7.2)
  * Run the installer or extract the files contained in the .zip file
  * Open the AKASHA dapp and synchronize with the network
  * Create or [import](https://akasha.helpscoutdocs.com/article/16-how-to-migrate-accounts) an AKASHA identity (profile)
  * Log in and enjoy AKASHA

#### Instructions For Linux Pioneers

  * Download the [.deb installer](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases/download/0.7.2/AKASHA_0.7.2_amd64.deb), [.AppImage](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases/download/0.7.2/AKASHA-0.7.2-x86_64.AppImage) or the [.zip archive](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases/download/0.7.2/AKASHA-0.7.2.zip) from our [official beta GitHub repo](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases/tag/0.7.2)
  * Run the installer or extract the files contained in the .zip file
  * Open the AKASHA dapp and synchronize with the network
  * Create or [import](https://akasha.helpscoutdocs.com/article/16-how-to-migrate-accounts) an AKASHA identity (profile)
  * Log in and enjoy AKASHA

**Linux users can also install the dap via snapcraft** or by running `snap
install --classic akasha` (full permissions) or `snap install akasha`(strict
mode). To update an existing snap install, run `snap refresh akasha`. Pretty
cool, right? :)

* * *

**Important notes:**

  1. **Please do not send ETH to anyone claiming that AKASHA has an ICO or a pre-sale. If/when an AKASHA “ICO” will be conducted we will announce it on all our official channels. If anyone claims that there is an ongoing AKASHA sale/private-sale/ICO but you can’t find anything about it on our official channels (Twitter, Discord, the AKASHA dapp, etc) you can safely assume that it is a SCAM. Stay safe and thank you for being part of this project!**
  2. **Do not download/install AKASHA from other users or websites and always verify the digital signature of the dapp. The digital signature should display AKASHA International GmbH.**
  3. **Do not send real ETH (ether) to your in-dapp addresses. The dapp works with test ETH and is currently deployed on a test network. But don’t worry, we 've got your back - you will receive test ETH and test AETH tokens when creating your account.**
  4. **The Ethereum Rinkeby test network blockchain needs ~3GB of diskspace in “Normal Sync”, around ~500MB in “Light Sync” and should take about ~30 minutes. The Web version does not need to sync as it relies on Metamask for the blockchain interactions**
  5. **Please be aware that this is a beta and by no means a final product. We expect AKASHA to evolve a lot in the first years and we see you, the Community, as the main source of this evolution. Thank you for your understanding!**

[News](/blog/category/news/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2018/04/18/akasha-
web-mend-the-gap)

