[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Microsoft announces compatibility with Sovrin and decentralized identifiers

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

[mc4wp_form id='4618']

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/blog-
post-9.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/) [Lawrence Lundy
Joins Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/)

April 2016  

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/blog-
post-7.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-vc-to-
hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/) [Outlier
Ventures Becomes First VC To Hire ‘Head of Crypto-Economics’ With Appointment
of Eden Dhaliwal](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-
vc-to-hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/)

August 2017  

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Microsoft announces compatibility with Sovrin and decentralized identifiers

Posted by Microsoft announces compatibility with Sovrin and decentralized
identifiers - May 2018

[
__](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://outlierventures.io/microsoft-
announces-sovrin-partnership) [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://outlierventures.io/microsoft-
announces-sovrin-partnership&title=Microsoft announces compatibility with
Sovrin and decentralized identifiers) [
__](https://twitter.com/share?url=https://outlierventures.io/microsoft-
announces-sovrin-partnership&text=Microsoft announces compatibility with
Sovrin and decentralized identifiers) [
__](https://telegram.me/share/url?url=https://outlierventures.io/microsoft-
announces-sovrin-partnership&text=Microsoft announces compatibility with
Sovrin and decentralized identifiers)

![Microsoft announces compatibility with Sovrin and decentralized identifiers
Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/05/building-1011876_1920.jpg)

Early on in its development, one of our most exciting portfolio companies,
[Evernym](https://www.evernym.com/), made a difficult but inspired decision:
to give away what was arguably the most important part of its nascent tech
stack; specifically, the purpose-built distributed ledger upon which its
identity apps would run.

And so, Evernym created the [Sovrin Foundation](https://sovrin.org/) with a
mandate to administer the ledger, called Sovrin. The Sovrin codebase was then
open-sourced and handed over to the [Hyperledger
Foundation](https://www.hyperledger.org/), where it was dubbed Project Indy.
Essentially, Evernym had concluded that its own commercial success would
depend on other entities also building their own identity apps on the Sovrin
ledger, thus creating a thriving ecosystem that would produce the rising tide
of decentralized identity that lifts all boats.

Yesterday was an exciting 24 hours for Sovrin, as high profile events on two
continents saw the technology referenced and validated again and again.

[

At Consensus 2018, Microsoft presented its progress toward incorporating
Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs) - a key protocol integrated into Sovrin, co-
authored by Evernym chief trust officer Drummond Reed - into its Authenticator
app.

__Click To Tweet ](http://ctt.ec/1r75n)

Microsoft’s Ankur Patel made the announcement and had some very cogent
observations to make on the subject of self sovereign identity, including, the
watch word of the space:

> _“Let’s start to recognize that the user is also a data controller, if you
> will.”_

Patel went on to say:

> _“So our job on participating in these wide set of customer needs is to push
> ourselves, to come up with a better identity offer. One that goes beyond
> usernames and passwords …today our intention is to show you some of that
> work, that puts the user back in control. We believe that every user -- you,
> me, organizations, devices -- should own their own identity.”_

Patel has clearly been reading from the Sovrin playbook, as authored by such
identerati as Foundation Chair Phil Windley, because this is precisely the
kind of thing he’s been saying for years.

Patel went on to show a proof of concept, in which a student at Brigham Young
University (an organization Patel said is showing real progressive tendencies
in the identity space and which runs a Sovrin node as a “steward”) requests
and receives cryptographically assured identity information from the school on
a p2p basis.

![Microsoft announces compatibility with Sovrin and decentralized identifiers
Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/cyber-
security-3374252_1920.jpg)

It’s exciting to see Microsoft and Sovrin - and by extension Evernym - achieve
such a perfect philosophical match. And even more exciting knowing that

[

Microsoft is working on bringing the power of self-sovereign identity to its
billions of users worldwide. Yes, we’re at ground floor in this space and the
potential continues to be limitless.

__Click To Tweet ](http://ctt.ec/6ect9)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

