[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_96,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff6c40de1-da3d-423f-bada-f785a91c8996_256x256.png)](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

# [MinerUpdate](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

SubscribeSign in

Share this post

MinerMovements #5

minerupdate.substack.com

Copy link

Twitter

Facebook

Email

# MinerMovements #5

### Coronavirus Catalyzes Global Turmoil

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_90,h_90,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff5fd59f3-58d6-4f93-9d5b-285d6896931c_640x640.jpeg)](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

|

[MinerUpdate](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

| Feb 10, 2020  
---  
  
[Comment](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-5/comments)

[Share](javascript:void\(0\))  
  
We faced some issues with our website last week which resulted in our content
being inaccessible for some while. We sincerely apologize that
[MinerUpdate](https://minerupdate.com/) was down but we are happy to be back
in action. We can assure you that this was a small blip in what will be a long
journey of providing high-quality crypto mining content.

On the bright side, it was great to see so many enthusiastic readers reach out
to us inquiring about the site. There have been a few major developments since
our last newsletter release. Of all of them, the exacerbation of the
Coronavirus certainly warrants the cover story spot.

* * *

Get the latest insights in the mining world. Join the MinerMovements mailing
list.

 **Subscribe**

* * *

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fa0d983a6-9d6a-4dce-8c87-f3bbe793ba53_1348x689.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fa0d983a6-9d6a-4dce-8c87-f3bbe793ba53_1348x689.png)

Chinese equities opened significantly lower when markets reopened after the
Lunar New Year holiday on Monday 3rd. After being closed since January 23rd,
[the CSI300 index opened over 9% lower while the Shanghai Composite opened
over 8% lower](https://www.tradingview.com/x/ALKcehyb/).

The catalyst for the turmoil in the markets was the exacerbation of the
Coronavirus over the Chinese holiday. The equity markets price in expectations
from investors but the reality is industries are already being impacted.

Crypto mining has been no exception. The major Bitcoin ASIC manufacturer firms
are all facing delays. [Kevin Shao, CEO of Canaan’s blockchain arm anticipates
that the Bitcoin network can maintain its current hash
rate](https://www.coindesk.com/how-the-long-tail-of-the-coronavirus-might-
slow-bitcoins-hash-power-growth) but whether the high demand for new mining
rigs will be met is looking increasingly uncertain given the spread of the
virus.

[The Chinese government initially extended the Lunar New Year in response to
the virus](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-health-foxconn-exclusive-
idUSKBN1ZX1ZH), forcing manufacturers to remain closed until February
8th-10th. DJ Miner, a Chinese reseller of WhatsMiner mining rigs, reported in
their Telegram group today that [Chinese businesses will not be returning to
work](https://t.me/whatsminerchannel).

> “We have just been informed that China will NOT be going back to work on
> Monday as the gov’t is still forcing all businesses to stay closed. No
> orders will ship until the work ban is lifted. "

We can’t verify this information with any official updates from the Chinese
government but major Bitcoin ASIC manufacturers have already sent out official
warnings to their clients notifying them that orders will be delayed.
[Bitmain, Canaan, Innosilicon](https://www.coindesk.com/how-the-long-tail-of-
the-coronavirus-might-slow-bitcoins-hash-power-growth), and
[MicroBT](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/ojrlJgBSoABZOB5S2HvZvg) all warned their
clients about delays.

[Pandaminer](https://minerupdate.com/hardware/pandaminer), a Bitcoin ASIC and
GPU mining rig producer, informed CoinDesk that “during the extended vacation
until Feb 10th, almost all the production will be halted”. The full extent of
the disruption to mining rig deliveries currently remains unknown, especially
in light of factories potentially remaining shut for longer.

Mining farms have been affected to a much lower extent than mining
manufactories. The primary issue facing mining farms currently is the
maintenance of mining rigs.

Mining farms have less staff on-site to ensure that mining rigs are fully
functional. Furthermore, mining rigs which need to be sent to repair
facilities will remain offline.

While the difficulty of mining on the Bitcoin network has increased over 19%
since the 20th of December, [BTC.com estimates that it will increase by less
than 1%](https://btc.com/stats/diff) at the next adjustment in roughly 1 day.
The fact that the difficulty is estimated to increase by less than 1% suggests
that little hash power has been added since the last adjustment. [The seven-
day average of estimated hash rate by
Bitinfocharts.com](https://bitinfocharts.com/comparison/hashrate-btc-
sma7.html) shows Bitcoin network hash rate reaching a peak and recently
declining.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fa58e8d68-f13c-47d2-8d5f-fbad39b2a611_1440x344.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fa58e8d68-f13c-47d2-8d5f-fbad39b2a611_1440x344.png)

The mining industry is particularly vulnerable to the Coronavirus given its
dependence on manufacturers delivering hardware. However, the cryptocurrency
industry as a whole is being impacted.

Several conferences have been cancelled or postponed. TokenInsight cancelled a
conference which was scheduled to take place in Chongqing province this month.
[Token2049 has been pushed back until
October](https://medium.com/@TOKEN2049/new-dates-for-token2049-393542851bff)
and [Hong Kong blockchain week has been postponed to an indefinite
date](https://www.blocko2o.com/).

Overseas events are also being impacted. [Binance postponed the Vietnam
Blockchain
week](https://www.binance.com/en/blog/421499824684900390/Postponing-Binance-
Blockchain-Week-Vietnam) which was planned to take place in Ho Chi Minh City
on February 29th.

If you are a professional in the cryptocurrency industry and your operations
have been impacted by the outbreak of the Coronavirus, we would be interested
to hear how your business has been impacted. Tweet us
[@MinerUpdate](https://twitter.com/minerupdate) or you can also comment on
this newsletter release.

[Tweet MinerUpdate](https://twitter.com/minerupdate)

* * *

### Miner Insights

We published a series of articles covering a proposal by major Bitcoin Cash
miners to implement a 12.5% block reward tax at the May 2020 upgrade. The tax
was proposed to fund development on the Bitcoin Cash blockchain.

  1.  **[Major Bitcoin Cash Miners Propose a Controversial Development Fund -](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/major-bitcoin-cash-miners-propose-a-controversial-development-fund) **The original proposition was co-signed by four major Bitcoin Cash miners - Jiang Zhuoer, Roger Ver, Jihan Wu, and Haipo Yang. The wording of the proposition was quite forceful and stated Bitcoin Cash miners who failed to comply would have their blocks orphaned.

  2.  **[How would a Bitcoin Cash Block Reward Tax affect Bitcoin Miners? -](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/how-would-a-bitcoin-cash-block-reward-tax-affect-bitcoin-miners) **An article by crypto researcher Hasu highlights that the implementation of a Bitcoin Cash block reward tax impacts the entire SHA256 mining ecosystem. Meanwhile, Bitcoin.com, led by Roger Ver, withdraws support for the proposal.

  3.  **[BTC.top CEO Updates Views on Controversial Bitcoin Cash Proposal -](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/btc-top-ceo-updates-views-on-controversial-bitcoin-cash-proposal) **In a less forceful tone, Jiang Zhuoer updates his stance on the Bitcoin Cash proposal. The updated proposition suggests that Bitcoin Cash miners vote with their hash power on whether the block reward tax will be implemented. 

### Quick Miner Movements

  * [An Iranian government cabinet has reportedly issued 1,000 licences to cryptocurrency miners.](https://www.coindesk.com/over-1000-bitcoin-miners-granted-licenses-in-iran-report)

  * [Two 51% attacks were successfully executed on the Bitcoin Gold blockchain](https://twitter.com/bitcoingold/status/1221450315825807363) with over 7,100 BTG being double-spent between the two attacks. The hash power to launch the attacks came from the hash rate marketplace NiceHash.

###  **Upcoming Mining Events**

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F69f0262d-7367-4099-9472-e9022d34e382_1280x158.jpeg)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F69f0262d-7367-4099-9472-e9022d34e382_1280x158.jpeg)

 **[Bitcoin 2020 -](https://minerupdate.com/conferences/bitcoin-2020)**
Bitcoin 2020 takes place from the 27th to the 28th of March in San Francisco.
MinerUpdate is an official media partner for the event and will be in
attendance along with several other leading Bitcoin mining companies. For
mining-related media enquiries at Bitcoin 2020, email hi@minerupdate.com.
MinerUpdate readers can get a 20% discount on tickets by using the promotion
code MINER20.

###  **About MinerUpdate.com**

[MinerUpdate.com](https://minerupdate.com/) is the leading crypto-mining
publication. Our aim is to bridge the gap between the East to the West in
mining while delivering to our readers the latest insights and developments in
the industry. Our publication is ad-free, bias-free, with no conflict of
interest when it comes to delivering high-quality content. In October 2019,
MinerUpdate hosted [MinerSummit](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-
insights/global-mining-leaders-summit-2019-recap-acknowledgements), the first
English crypto mining event in China.

###  **Connect With Us**

Did we miss any important mining movements? Let us know by tweeting
[@MinerUpdate](https://twitter.com/minerupdate) or emailing
hi@minerupdate.com.

[CommentComment](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-5/comments)

[ShareShare](javascript:void\(0\))

![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_66,h_66,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fsubstack.com%2Fimg%2Favatars%2Flogged-
out.png)

## Create your profile

Your nameYour bio Subscribe to the newsletter

0 subscriptions will be displayed on your profile (edit)

Skip for now

Save & Post Comment

## Only paid subscribers can comment on this post

[Already a paid subscriber? **Sign in**](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminermovements-5&for_pub=minerupdate&change_user=false)

#### Check your email

For your security, we need to re-authenticate you.

Click the link we sent to , or [click here to sign
in](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminermovements-5&for_pub=minerupdate&with_password=true).

TopNewCommunity[](javascript:void\(0\))

No posts

# Ready for more?

 **Subscribe**

© 2022 MinerUpdate

[Privacy](https://minerupdate.substack.com/privacy) ∙ [Terms](/tos) ∙
[Collection notice](https://substack.com/ccpa#personal-data-collected)

[ Publish on
Substack](https://substack.com/signup?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=web&utm_content=footer)[
Get the app](https://substack.com/app/app-store-redirect?utm_campaign=app-
marketing&utm_content=web-footer-button)

[Substack](https://substack.com) is the home for great writing

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please [turn on
JavaScript](https://enable-javascript.com/) or unblock scripts

