[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_96,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff6c40de1-da3d-423f-bada-f785a91c8996_256x256.png)](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

# [MinerUpdate](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

SubscribeSign in

Share this post

MinerMovements #4

minerupdate.substack.com

Copy link

Twitter

Facebook

Email

# MinerMovements #4

### What shapes Bitcoin mining pool competition?

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_90,h_90,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff5fd59f3-58d6-4f93-9d5b-285d6896931c_640x640.jpeg)](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

|

[MinerUpdate](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

| Jan 21, 2020  
---  
  
[Comment](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-4/comments)

[Share](javascript:void\(0\))  
  
Hello, Miner!

We are only three weeks into 2020 and we have already observed Bitcoin hash
rate and difficulty levels hitting all-time highs, upside swings in price, and
huge developments from mining companies. It’s shaping up to be an exciting
year for Bitcoin mining!

The [MinerUpdate](https://minerupdate.com/) team will shortly have some
exciting news for our readers so stay tuned for that. In the meantime, enjoy
the latest release of MinerMovements and don’t miss your discount code to
[Bitcoin 2020](https://minerupdate.com/conferences/bitcoin-2020) included
below!

* * *

Get the latest insights into the mining world. Join the MinerMovements mailing
list.

 **Subscribe**

* * *

###  **What Makes a Mining Pool Successful?**

As opposed to our usual review of Bitcoin mining pool rankings, we analyse how
mining pools acquire their competitive edge. When a miner makes a decision to
choose mining pool X over mining pool Y, what are the key factors driving that
decision?

Some industries are particularly governed by power laws. If Miner A and Miner
B are choosing which social media platforms they wish to use, there will be a
high chance of crossover as both will be likely to choose the platforms with
the highest number of users.

However, mining is a particularly distributed industry with different miners
acting off of varying information. A high number of miners may be
predominantly driven by increasing profit margins leading them to choose the
pools with the lowest fees whereas others may care more about ideology or a
distributed hash rate allocation. Some may require a mining pool where they
can have the highest degree of confidence that it will be operating ten years
down the line whereas another miner may need their hash power directed at a
pool that will provide financial services.

The lowering of fees to acquire hash rate has been a method mining pools have
used to compete since the origins of the industry. With fees near-zero for
many Bitcoin mining pools, the competitive advantage to be gained from
lowering fees has diminished.

> “Compared with lower-ranked mining pools, the top tier mining pools have no
> obvious advantages in terms of fees and payout methods” TokenInsight 2019
> Mining review

The mining pool industry has evolved to compete more intensely in areas such
as services, technology, and brand awareness. [Poolin co-founder Chris
Zhu](https://minerupdate.com/interviews/mining-leader-interview-series-poolin-
coo-chris-zhu) noted that superior mining pool technologies were a key factor
in their acquisition of the largest share of Bitcoin hash rate 2019.[
NovaBlock](https://minerupdate.com/pools/nova-block) Co-CEO Yuki Sun believed
that a strong brand image from a Chinese Poolin tour combined with a strong
mobile app played heavily into the success of
[Poolin](https://minerupdate.com/pools/poolin) in 2019.

> “The top tier mining pools have strong advantages in their hashrate
> stability, platform security, mobile app user experience, and brand
> effects.” TokenInsight 2019 Mining review

After speaking to several Bitcoin mining pools throughout 2019, a recurring
theme has been the move towards mining pools being a one-stop platform for all
of a miners requirements. From the mining pool professionals, we have spoken
to, it is widely believed that this is the most important competitive angle
for mining pools and will be important in playing into future hash rate shares
among major pools. We have already observed mining pools begin to compete in
this way with [BTC.com](https://minerupdate.com/pools/btc-com) integrating
MatrixPort financial services with its mining pool services.

> “It’s a move to be a one-stop-shop. It’s a move for pools to cater not only
> to their customers’ pooling needs but also to their hardware needs, and
> their financial services needs related to mining and Bitcoin.” [Edward
> Evenson, Braiins Director of BD
> ](https://minerupdate.com/news/interview/slush-pool-interview-
> part-2-bitcoin-block-subsidy-proof-of-stake-mining-pool-business-model)

Do you hold any opinions on what shapes competition between Bitcoin mining
pools? Let us know by tweeting
[@MinerUpdate](https://twitter.com/minerupdate).

[Tweet MinerUpdate](https://twitter.com/minerupdate)

###  **Bitcoin Difficulty Hits All-Time Highs**

Bitcoin difficulty adjusted to an all-time high of 14.78 trillion on the 14th
of January. It is estimated that the difficulty level will increase another 5%
at the next adjustment on the 27th of January.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fc56835cd-382f-45b3-bf7e-7ca7c40dc29d_1440x342.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fc56835cd-382f-45b3-bf7e-7ca7c40dc29d_1440x342.png)

Raw values of Bitcoin hash rate estimated by
[Bitinfocharts.com](https://bitinfocharts.com/comparison/bitcoin-
hashrate.html) reported hash rate recently recording an all-time high of ~126
EH/s.

###  **Strong Start to 2020 for Bitcoin Price**

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F38eb9cec-a207-447d-9230-22ed0eab67fe_990x741.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F38eb9cec-a207-447d-9230-22ed0eab67fe_990x741.png)

Bitcoin price appreciated roughly 18% during the first two weeks of trading in
2020. With Bitcoin price trading increasing from ~$7,300 to ~$8,600, the vast
majority of mining operations are likely profitable and we may be observing
some mining rigs coming back online.

In their report published in December, CoinShares estimated the market-wide
production cost per Bitcoin mined to be ~$6,100. [Current estimates from
Capriole Investments put the figure at
~$5,700](https://www.tradingview.com/script/nd8XThBL-Bitcoin-Production-Cost-
Oscillator/).

It’s worth pointing out a number of levels which technical analysts may be
currently monitoring:

  * 200 DMA trading ~$9,015. An increase above on the 19th of January was followed by a significant sell-off.

  * 50 WMA trading ~$7,920

  * 20 WMA trading ~$8,260

* * *

###  **Miner Insights -**

 **[How will the Bitcoin ASIC Manufacturer Market Evolve in
2020?](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/how-will-the-bitcoin-asic-
manufacturer-market-evolve-in-2020) \- **Our analysts review the Bitcoin ASIC
manufacturer market with a focus on the competitive positions of Bitmain and
Canaan while also analysing the prospects of a North American-based Bitcoin
ASIC manufacturer emerging. Some MinerUpdate readers were somewhat outraged
that MicroBT was not much attention. Given the [arrest of MicroBT CEO Zuoxing
Yang](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/microbt-founder-zuoxing-
yang-detained-bitmain-responsible), TokenInsight noted in their annual mining
review that they believe “the market will not stand with the side of
Whatsminers [MicroBT]”. Tweet [@MinerUpdate](https://twitter.com/minerupdate)
if you have any opinions on how MicroBT or other manufacturers will shape up
over the coming year.

 **[Is the Antminer S9 Era Over?](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-
insights/is-the-antminer-s9-era-over) \- **Released in 2016, the Antminer S9
is a venerable mining rig, significantly better than any Bitcoin ASIC hardware
released in previous generations. At current prices, it is forecasted that
most Bitcoin miners with S9-generation hardware will be forced to shut down
after the [halving](http://whatshalvening.btc.libsynpro.com/ep-4-balancing-
the-grid-with-chris-bendiksen). **** The disappearance of an unusual pattern
in the Bitcoin nonce distribution that was believed by some to be attributable
to the presence of Antminer S9 hardware has recently disappeared. Does this
recent disappearance indicate that Antminer S9 hardware has already come
offline?

 **[New York Crypto Mining Farm Coinmint Set to Dissolve?
-](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/new-york-crypto-mining-farm-
coinmint-set-to-dissolve) **A dispute between the two owners of Coinmint has
resulted in one of the partners filing to dissolve the company. Coinmint mine
several cryptocurrencies and operate in the former Alcoa aluminium smelter
plant in Massena, New York.

 **[Dominant Theories as Bitcoin 2020 Halving Approaches
-](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/dominant-theories-as-bitcoin-
halving-2020-approaches) **Don’t miss our review of dominant theories
exploring how Bitcoin will respond to the upcoming halving. MinerUpdate
reviews the leading ideas relating to how Bitcoin fees and price will respond
to the block subsidy issuance halving.

###  **Quick Miner Movements**

  * [A government body in Uzbekistan has outlined plans to create a national mining pool in 2020.](https://news.bitcoin.com/uzbekistan-to-create-national-mining-pool-launch-licensed-exchange/)

  * [An autonomous region in the northwest of Georgia is seeking to uncover illegal cryptocurrency mining farms operating in the region](https://cointelegraph.com/news/government-of-abkhazia-to-intensify-identification-of-crypto-mining-farms). This development takes place at the direction of the prime minister of the region after it was revealed that the energy draw from the state utility provider exceeded 40 MW.

###  **Best of the Rest**

 **[Hashr8 Podcast - Why China dominates Bitcoin Mining
-](https://thedailychain.com/hashr8-podcast-why-china-dominates-bitcoin-
mining/)** MinerUpdate Head of Research John Lee Quigley joins the Hashr8 team
to talk about his experience in China meeting Bitcoin mining companies. This
episode details some of the disconnect between the Eastern and Western mining
industries and how MinerUpdate bridges this gap.

 **[How was it possible for Bitmain to oust its largest shareholder overnight?
-](https://www.coindesk.com/how-was-it-possible-for-bitmain-to-oust-its-
largest-shareholder-overnight) **Wolfie Zhao analyses
[Bitmain](https://minerupdate.com/hardware/bitmain) corporate filings to
highlight how the [removal of the largest shareholder Micree
Zhan](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/bitmain-ipo-rumors-surface-
as-wu-jihan-ousts-co-founder) was possible. The analysis pinpoints a November
meeting which reduced the voting power of Zhan’s shares from ten votes per
share to one vote per share.

 **[Why is Bitcoin hash rate a lagging indicator on the way up?
-](https://tftc.io/martys-bent/issue-652-fundamental-refresh-wednesday/)
**Mostly, miners are profit-driven entities. Price goes up, mining profit
margins increase, and miners are driven to acquire hardware. But acquiring
such hardware is a lengthy process meaning that there can be a considerable
lag between price increasing, and hash rate following. But the same can’t be
said about the opposite scenario. When Bitcoin price declines and those profit
margins are squeezed, it is simply a matter of switching off the hardware.

 **[An Introduction to the Efficient Market Hypothesis for Bitcoiners
-](https://medium.com/@nic__carter/an-introduction-to-the-efficient-market-
hypothesis-for-bitcoiners-ed7e90be7c0d) **Nic Carter explains an extremely
important market concept in this 29-minute blog post. The efficient markets
hypothesis (EMH) is a theory which has sparked intense debate for decades. It
is highly relevant to the cryptocurrency markets, especially in the case of
upcoming protocol changes such as the halving. Carter does a great job of
explaining EMH in the context of the cryptocurrency markets while also
addressing common objections to the theory.

### Upcoming Mining Events

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F69f0262d-7367-4099-9472-e9022d34e382_1280x158.jpeg)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F69f0262d-7367-4099-9472-e9022d34e382_1280x158.jpeg)

 **[Bitcoin 2020 -](https://minerupdate.com/conferences/bitcoin-2020)
**Bitcoin 2020 takes place from the 27th to the 28th of March in San
Francisco. MinerUpdate is an official media partner for the event and will be
in attendance along with several other leading Bitcoin mining companies. For
mining-related media enquiries at Bitcoin 2020, email hi@minerupdate.com.
MinerUpdate readers can get a 20% discount on tickets by using the promotion
code MINER20.

 **[Baltic Cryptocurrency Mining Meetup -](https://www.meetup.com/Baltic-
Cryptocurrency-Mining-Meetup/events/267886784/) **Hashr8 CEO Whit Gibbs and
Poolin VP Alejandro De La Torre will co-host a crypto mining meetup in Riga,
Latvia on the 30th of January.

### **About MinerUpdate.com**

[MinerUpdate.com](https://minerupdate.com/) is the leading crypto-mining
publication. Our aim is to bridge the gap between the East to the West in
mining while delivering to our readers the latest insights and developments in
the industry. Our publication is ad-free, bias-free, with no conflict of
interest when it comes to delivering high-quality content. In October 2019,
MinerUpdate hosted [MinerSummit](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-
insights/global-mining-leaders-summit-2019-recap-acknowledgements), the first
English crypto mining event in China.

###  **Connect With Us**

Did we miss any important mining movements? Let us know by tweeting
[@MinerUpdate](https://twitter.com/minerupdate) or emailing
hi@minerupdate.com.

[CommentComment](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-4/comments)

[ShareShare](javascript:void\(0\))

![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_66,h_66,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fsubstack.com%2Fimg%2Favatars%2Flogged-
out.png)

## Create your profile

Your nameYour bio Subscribe to the newsletter

0 subscriptions will be displayed on your profile (edit)

Skip for now

Save & Post Comment

## Only paid subscribers can comment on this post

[Already a paid subscriber? **Sign in**](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminermovements-4&for_pub=minerupdate&change_user=false)

#### Check your email

For your security, we need to re-authenticate you.

Click the link we sent to , or [click here to sign
in](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminermovements-4&for_pub=minerupdate&with_password=true).

TopNewCommunity[](javascript:void\(0\))

No posts

# Ready for more?

 **Subscribe**

© 2022 MinerUpdate

[Privacy](https://minerupdate.substack.com/privacy) ∙ [Terms](/tos) ∙
[Collection notice](https://substack.com/ccpa#personal-data-collected)

[ Publish on
Substack](https://substack.com/signup?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=web&utm_content=footer)[
Get the app](https://substack.com/app/app-store-redirect?utm_campaign=app-
marketing&utm_content=web-footer-button)

[Substack](https://substack.com) is the home for great writing

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please [turn on
JavaScript](https://enable-javascript.com/) or unblock scripts

