[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_96,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff6c40de1-da3d-423f-bada-f785a91c8996_256x256.png)](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

# [MinerUpdate](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

SubscribeSign in

Share this post

MinerMovements #7

minerupdate.substack.com

Copy link

Twitter

Facebook

Email

# MinerMovements #7

### The Matthew Mining Effect.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_90,h_90,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff5fd59f3-58d6-4f93-9d5b-285d6896931c_640x640.jpeg)](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

|

[MinerUpdate](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

| Mar 9, 2020  
---  
  
[Comment](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-7/comments)

[Share](javascript:void\(0\))  
  
[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff41792d6-e76e-443c-93e2-f07705fb5bba_991x775.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff41792d6-e76e-443c-93e2-f07705fb5bba_991x775.png)

It’s Monday morning and [Bitcoin
price](https://www.tradingview.com/x/YRgSjUJF/) wrapped up last week’s trading
by declining roughly 12% over the weekend. At the time of writing, the
difficulty adjustment is set to take place in roughly five hours.

[BTC.com](https://www.minerupdate.com/pools/btc-com) is currently estimating
that the [difficulty will increase by 7.39%](https://btc.com/stats/diff). A
significant difficulty increase would certainly be expected given that
[Bitcoin hash rate](https://www.minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/bitcoin-
hash-rate-asic-manufacturers) estimates have risen to record highs and Chinese
ASIC manufacturers and maintenance factories have gradually begun reopening
after shutting down as the [Coronavirus
outbreak](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-5) exacerbated.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F11f5f656-0e1c-4355-91a5-d4b2d88d9c1f_1440x346.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F11f5f656-0e1c-4355-91a5-d4b2d88d9c1f_1440x346.png)

The ASIC manufacturers and maintenance factories slowly returning to full
operations means Bitcoin miners can acquire new mining rigs and fix rigs which
were facing technical difficulties. While such factors are potential
explanations for the recent increase in hash rate, the difficulty adjustment
roughly two weeks from now will be far more uncertain.

If ASIC manufacturers can continue towards resuming full operating capacity,
this would likely facilitate miners being able to deploy more hash rate. But
if Coronavirus conditions continue to exacerbate, the return to full
operations may pause or even revert.

Furthermore, the weekend Bitcoin price decline will force inefficient miners
operating on the highest part of the cost curve to shut down operations. Data
from Capriole Investments estimates the current [market-wide cost of
production to be $5,700](https://www.tradingview.com/x/Y2tD5QSt/).

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F61b6d30f-ee0f-41db-8150-f65c8cf56c6d_995x777.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F61b6d30f-ee0f-41db-8150-f65c8cf56c6d_995x777.png)

Since our [last newsletter
release](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-6), there has been
several new ASIC hardware announcements. This week’s cover piece analyses the
impact of new mining rig releases on the Bitcoin mining industry.

* * *

Get the latest insights in the mining world. Join the MinerMovements mailing
list.

 **Subscribe**

* * *

### The Matthew Mining Effect

Over the past months, several new series of Bitcoin mining rigs have been
announced. [Bitmain](https://www.minerupdate.com/hardware/bitmain) announced
their Antminer S19 series with the Antminer S19 Pro touting a hash rate of 110
TH/s.

Furthermore, MicroBT opened sales for their Whatminer M30S series in February
while [Canaan](https://www.minerupdate.com/hardware/canaan) shipped their
February batch of mining rigs which included the AvalonMiner 1166. Canaan also
announced the AvalonMiner 1066 Pro with a hash rate of 55 TH and an energy
efficiency of 60 J/TH.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fa758a509-dddb-46a1-b63f-4ea252ed6c4c_792x201.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fa758a509-dddb-46a1-b63f-4ea252ed6c4c_792x201.png)

Every cyclical release of mining rigs highlights an element intrinsic to the
Bitcoin mining industry and one which rings true for all _laissez-faire_
industries generally. **The[Matthew
effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matthew_effect) exponentially increases
the advantages of efficient miners while putting increasing amounts of
pressure on those operating below maximal efficiency.**

 **Those most efficient miners, operating on the lowest end of the cost curve,
increase their advantage while all those miners who are higher on the cost
curve observe their returns move closer to the cash-flow breakeven.** Those
who are highest on the cost curve, the most inefficient, will be pushed below
their cash-flow breakeven figure and will likely turn their mining rigs
offline.

It’s a pure power law. **Generally, the lower a miner goes on the cost curve,
the exponentially greater their market position is.** The higher a miner is on
the cost curve, the exponentially weaker their market position is.

There are some unique situations such as hobbyist miners who are experimenting
or crafty college students capitalizing on non-existent electricity rates. But
these are the exception and not the rule.

Let’s look at the factors that make the Matthew effect ring true for mining.

 **When a Bitcoin miner establishes their operations, they are inherently long
the value of their hash rate, short difficulty, and long bitcoin price.** The
value of their hash rate will diminish as price declines, or as difficulty
increases, or both.

New hardware releases results in more hash rate deployed on the network,
subsequently increasing difficulty. Miners are either forced to upgrade their
hardware to maintain their current competitiveness or see their slice of the
pie diminish as other miners deploy new hardware with higher hash rate
outputs.

There will be other factors at play such as the fiat cost of the new hardware
and whether the price of the new mining rig justifies the extra hash rate it
provides. **Every new mining rig release puts mid-scale and small-scale miners
in a tough position.** Do they upgrade to the new-generation ASICs, attempt to
acquire more previous generation hardware at lower prices, or do they standby
and risk extinction?

Why does efficiency give miners an exponentially greater advantage?

 **Miners who are lowest on the cost curve will generally have the widest
profit margins**. Miners are in the business of generating bitcoin but their
operating costs are in fiat.

 **Miners who are the highest on the cost curve are forced to sell close to
100% of the bitcoin they generate to meet their operating costs.** The lower a
miner goes on the cost curve, the less the percentage of their mined bitcoin
they are forced to sell.

These efficient miners have the privilege of being able to hold bitcoin and
get exposure to any upside price movements. They can also choose to accumulate
cash on their balance sheet.

 **When new mining rigs are released, accumulating cash on the balance sheet
gives these miners the choice of upgrading their rigs and other
infrastructure.** Many miners will not have this choice as they are operating
just at the margin.

Another angle to consider here is any new-generation mining rigs acquired by
these miners will be deployed before difficulty levels have adjusted to
reflect the higher hash rate. **This makes the initial deployment of new
mining rigs an extremely profitable phase.**

By the time inefficient miners have acquired new releases, difficulty levels
will have adjusted significantly higher and returns will be far lower. The
efficient miners have benefitted from their position on the lower end of the
cost curve while the inefficient miners are pushed closer to the margins.

And the cycle repeats with every mining rig release. Being lower on the cost
curve gives miners protection against price drops and the option to acquire
new releases of hardware at a time when difficulty levels have not yet
adjusted higher.

Some businesses have spawned with the main goal of helping miners move lower
on the cost curve. Texas-based HODL Ranch helps Bitcoin miners set up
facilities in West Texas to benefit from the low-cost electricity rates and
abundant renewable energy sources. [HODL Ranch CTO Jesse
Peltan](https://www.technologyreview.com/s/615298/how-texass-wind-boom-has-
spawned-a-bitcoin-mining-rush/) shared his views on the importance of cost of
production in the mining industry

>  **“Peltan argues that in the long run what matters most is not  Bitcoin’s
> price but “the cost of your production relative to other producers.”** With
> low enough operational costs, larger producers will be insulated against
> price drops by marginal producers, which will get forced to shut down, he
> says.”

Oh, and one more thing. The [Bitcoin
halving](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/dominant-theories-as-
bitcoin-halving-2020-approaches) is scheduled to take place in two months.
Wolfie Zhao summarizes what the combination of new mining rig releases and the
upcoming halving will mean for many miners.

> “With bitcoin's [halving event](https://www.coindesk.com/for-crypto-miners-
> bitcoins-halving-could-mean-a-doubling-in-costs) approaching in May, a
> programmed-in change that will reduce the network's mining rewards from 12.5
> BTC per block to 6.25, older models like the S9 will become unprofitable
> unless bitcoin's price increases significantly. As such, **miners may have
> to either upgrade or get out of the industry.** ”

[Share
MinerUpdate](https://minerupdate.substack.com/?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email&utm_content=share&action=share)

* * *

### Coronavirus Update

The Coronavirus outbreak continues to exacerbate. The virus has become
significantly more prevalent outside of China. In response, conferences are
being cancelled and some restrictions on travel and work are being put in
place by various governments. Bitcoin 2020 was scheduled to take place at the
end of this month but has been postponed until Q3. We have found [this
website](https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/) useful for keeping up to
date with reported cases.

Stay safe miners.

* * *

###  **Miner Insights**

 **[Bitcoin Hash Rate Hits Record Highs as ASIC Manufacturers Resume
Operations -](https://www.minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/bitcoin-hash-
rate-asic-manufacturers) **Hash rate moves to all-time highs, ASIC
manufacturers slowly resume operations, and several new series of mining rigs
are announced. [MinerUpdate](https://minerupdate.com) reviews it all!

###  **Luxor Mining Interview**

We interviewed the founding team of [Luxor
Mining](https://www.minerupdate.com/news/interview/luxor-mining-interview).
Luxor Mining is a North American multi-cryptocurrency mining pool service. The
Luxor team has been producing excellent mining content and completing some
exciting work in the industry. The team shared their opinion on various types
of mining hardware, how the altcoin market may shape up moving forward, and
what needs to happen for America to capture a larger share of the hash rate
pie.

Luxor described why ASICs are the end-goal for a PoW chain. Other general
computing hardware can be programmed to other uses, resulting in a
misalignment of incentives. Such hardware can act against the health of a
network for short-term profit and switch its function later. On the other
hand, ASICs will be worthless if they can’t mine on the chain they are
designed for, which serves to align miners incentives with those of the
network. Furthermore, the Luxor team noted that they are “aware of a few GPU
farms that would be able to 51% attack any non-ASIC PoW chain”.

> “Decentralization simply does not exist in the GPU world. It’s not any
> better than ASICs, and arguably worse”

The team detailed the challenges with mining in North America. The absence of
a domestic ASIC manufacturer means that North American miners are typically
last in line to receive ASICs, mining at much higher difficulty levels than
when the ASIC is originally released. The build-out costs are also noted to be
“2x greater compared to other regions”. Luxor Mining sees a domestic ASIC
manufacturer and instruments for miners to hedge financial risk as two key
puzzle pieces North America needs to grow its Bitcoin mining industry.

### Best of the Rest

 **[How Texas Wind Boom has spawned a Bitcoin Mining Rush
-](https://www.technologyreview.com/s/615298/how-texass-wind-boom-has-spawned-
a-bitcoin-mining-rush/) **Since [Layer1](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-
insights/layer1-launches-bitcoin-mining-containers-in-west-texas) launched,
the media has been giving more attention to West Texas as a promising Bitcoin
mining regions. This piece covers the advanced wind energy infrastructure in
the region and how Bitcoin miners are addressing the high temperatures in the
region.

 **[A New York Power Plant is Mining $50k Worth of Bitcoin A Day
-](https://www.coindesk.com/a-new-york-power-plant-is-mining-50k-worth-of-
bitcoin-a-
day?utm_source=hootsuite&utm_medium=twitter&utm_term=Events&utm_content=Register&utm_campaign=FATF)**
An upstate New York power plant which used to only open during peak times has
installed 7,000 Bitcoin mining rigs. The mining rigs are reported to be
currently producing roughly 5.5 bitcoin daily. It is further reported that the
income from the mining rigs will enable the power plant to remain open year-
round.

 **[Canaan Fodder -](http://www.mavalue.org/research/canaan-
fodder/?__cf_chl_jschl_tk__=cfd1057f2e59be40efb6a48387629d9a4929c85f-1583290608-0-AfhfHDxJwKlbrpIHtlGXMY19m848H56IA5QVa8L626DwEPdt0YJ6b17tBmXYP_gtrp8X2RTv7WUQKv0ZxlIUfHfopIvfaaEteYQhlEo0nqYXp69Vy-
juqDDGtIpj-H6CTvrCDrntOyH45L1TvjDHNYJ-
cisHnShOMcVCnZLJ5gsPOTewJsGnaw5p_ZeLrqgRSthYlHjW1aV0boO8wO9OY30eWnTdPQ7jOARSjnhgy2R5bCz4-zJhdfk-
VqlRnyQn9bKU8z_d-kiFQMJEe0XP6Wka1pGOnaCvClnShTDRxOxpsY-AywmT4cyqE-ZW1qhw3Q)
**Investigative research by a short-seller raises alarming evidence concerning
Canaan. The research highlights several concerning customer profiles and
business relationships which may have existed solely to boost Canaan’s sales
figures ahead of former IPO attempts.

 **[Tales from the Crypt: A Bitcoin Podcast #136 with Paul Sztorc
-](https://anchor.fm/tales-from-the-crypt/episodes/136-Paul-Sztorc-
eb2i11/a-a1irnqk) **Sztorc frames the proof-of-work versus proof-of-stake
argument in economics theory, arguing that proof-of-stake is no less energy-
intensive than proof-of-work. The argument is grounded in the theory that
marginal cost equals marginal revenue (MC=MR). MC=MR proposes that block
producers will always bid up the cost of producing a block close to the
revenue available for producing it. Paul has also detailed his argument in his
2015 blog post “[Nothing is Cheaper than Proof of
Work](https://www.truthcoin.info/blog/pow-cheapest/)”.

###  **About MinerUpdate.com**

[MinerUpdate.com](https://minerupdate.com/) is the leading crypto-mining
publication. Our aim is to bridge the gap between the East to the West in
mining while delivering to our readers the latest insights and developments in
the industry. Our publication is ad-free, bias-free, with no conflict of
interest when it comes to delivering high-quality content. In October 2019,
MinerUpdate hosted [MinerSummit](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-
insights/global-mining-leaders-summit-2019-recap-acknowledgements), the first
English crypto mining event in China.

###  **Connect With Us**

Did we miss any important mining movements? Let us know by tweeting
[@MinerUpdate](https://twitter.com/minerupdate) or emailing
[hi@minerupdate.com](mailto:hi@minerupdate.com).

[CommentComment](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-7/comments)

[ShareShare](javascript:void\(0\))

![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_66,h_66,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fsubstack.com%2Fimg%2Favatars%2Flogged-
out.png)

## Create your profile

Your nameYour bio Subscribe to the newsletter

0 subscriptions will be displayed on your profile (edit)

Skip for now

Save & Post Comment

## Only paid subscribers can comment on this post

[Already a paid subscriber? **Sign in**](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminermovements-7&for_pub=minerupdate&change_user=false)

#### Check your email

For your security, we need to re-authenticate you.

Click the link we sent to , or [click here to sign
in](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminermovements-7&for_pub=minerupdate&with_password=true).

TopNewCommunity[](javascript:void\(0\))

No posts

# Ready for more?

 **Subscribe**

© 2022 MinerUpdate

[Privacy](https://minerupdate.substack.com/privacy) ∙ [Terms](/tos) ∙
[Collection notice](https://substack.com/ccpa#personal-data-collected)

[ Publish on
Substack](https://substack.com/signup?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=web&utm_content=footer)[
Get the app](https://substack.com/app/app-store-redirect?utm_campaign=app-
marketing&utm_content=web-footer-button)

[Substack](https://substack.com) is the home for great writing

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please [turn on
JavaScript](https://enable-javascript.com/) or unblock scripts

