[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_96,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff6c40de1-da3d-423f-bada-f785a91c8996_256x256.png)](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

# [MinerUpdate](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

SubscribeSign in

Share this post

MinerMovements #6

minerupdate.substack.com

Copy link

Twitter

Facebook

Email

# MinerMovements #6

### Whatsminer M30S Officially Launches While Chinese Equities Approach Record
Highs

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_90,h_90,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff5fd59f3-58d6-4f93-9d5b-285d6896931c_640x640.jpeg)](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

|

[MinerUpdate](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

| Feb 24, 2020  
---  
  
[Comment](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-6/comments)

[Share](javascript:void\(0\))  
  
Happy Monday Miners,

To kick off the sixth release of MinerMovements, we have some questions for
all subscribers. **Is there a specific part of the Bitcoin mining industry
which you believe needs to be explored further?** Is there a question niggling
at you about Bitcoin mining and you can’t find the answer? Is there some data
which you believe would enhance our understanding of the Bitcoin mining
industry? Let us know by tweeting
[@minerupdate](https://twitter.com/minerupdate).

[Tweet MinerUpdate](https://twitter.com/minerupdate)

* * *

Get the latest insights in the mining world. Join the MinerMovements mailing
list.

 **Subscribe**

* * *

### Coronavirus Update

In our [last newsletter
release,](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-5) **[we explored
the impact the
Coronavirus](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-5) is having on
the equity markets and crypto mining**. Production at Chinese manufacturies
was halted resulting in **[high demand for new mining rigs not being
filled](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/how-does-the-2020-bitcoin-
price-increase-impact-miners)**.

Difficulty levels remained relatively unchanged as hash rate from new mining
rigs was subject to delivery delays. The situation is roughly the same with
[BTC.com](https://minerupdate.com/pools/btc-com) estimating that the [Bitcoin
mining difficulty level will drop by roughly 0.91%
tomorrow](https://btc.com/stats/diff). This highlights that there has likely
been little change in hash rate since the last MinerMovements release.

However, huge changes have been observed in the equity markets…

Here’s the chart of the CSI300 index and Shanghai Composite included in our
last [MinerMovements](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-5)
release.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fa0d983a6-9d6a-4dce-8c87-f3bbe793ba53_1348x689.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fa0d983a6-9d6a-4dce-8c87-f3bbe793ba53_1348x689.png)

Here is the CSI300 index as of this morning 10:15 GMT+8.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fbef49bfc-0011-4ca4-bae5-8e8030d3b61d_992x740.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fbef49bfc-0011-4ca4-bae5-8e8030d3b61d_992x740.png)

[The price returned within 1% of all-time
highs](https://www.tradingview.com/x/BiK1coIR/). [The Shanghai Composite
increased to within roughly 2% of its high formed before the
Coronavirus](https://www.tradingview.com/x/HzN24VHg/).

What has the catalyst been for the recovery in the Chinese markets? Does it
mean that Chinese industry is not going to be impacted by the Coronavirus to
the extent which was initially anticipated?

Not necessarily. [The Chinese central bank (PBOC) has intervened with a long,
long list of stimulatory measures as detailed in a Reuters
article](https://mobile.reuters.com/article/amp/idUSKBN20E101?__twitter_impression=true).

Here are just a few examples:

  * The PBOC injected 1.7 trillion yuan (~$242 billion) into the Chinese economy through open market operations

  * Banks in Shanghai have issued 1.31 billion yuan (~$186 million) to 48 firms central to the Shanghai economy

  * The one-year loan prime rate, the benchmark lending gauge of the Chinese economy, was lowered by ten basis points to 4.05%

All these measures have certainly bolstered Chinese equity prices. But with
Chinese firms facing questionable Q1 results, these measures may be more of a
short-term fix.

The implications for the crypto mining industry are limited. Lower benchmark
interest rates will allow businesses to access cheaper credit but the main
factor for the health of crypto mining is the return of Bitcoin ASIC
manufacturers.

[MicroBT has already resumed operations](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-
insights/how-does-the-2020-bitcoin-price-increase-impact-miners) according to
a source from [ValarHash](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/chinese-
company-valarhash-launches-mining-products-linked-to-9-of-bitcoin-hash-rate).
This report is corroborated by the **official launch of the Whatsminer M30
mining rig series**.

The first batch sold out within 24 hours with expected shipping on the 20th of
March. The second batch is currently on sale with expected shipping on the
20th of April.

The attractiveness of the second batch of Whatsminer M30S is significantly
lower than the first batch due to the month difference in shipping. Miners
receiving second batch Whatminer M30S rigs will observe significantly lower
returns than those receiving the first batch as the difficulty level will have
adjusted higher to account for new hash rate on the market.

[Share](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-6?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email&utm_content=share&action=share)

* * *

### Miner Insights

 **[Layer1 launches Bitcoin mining containers in West
Texas](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/layer1-launches-bitcoin-
mining-containers-in-west-texas) \- **Bitcoin mining startup Layer1 launched
several Bitcoin mining containers in West Texas. Each container has an energy
draw of 2.5 MW. Layer1 plans to scale up to 100 MW over the next few months
and has ambitions to capture 30% of the hash rate by the end of 2021. It would
currently require over 500,000 Antminer S17+ mining rigs to capture 30% of the
Bitcoin hash rate.

 **[North Korea scale-up Monero mining
activity](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/north-korea-scale-up-
monero-mining-activity)\- **Research by threat intelligence firm Recorded
Future claims that North Korea has scaled its Monero mining operations tenfold
since 2017. Crypto mining is one of several methods which North Korea uses to
generate revenue and circumvent sanctions.

 **[How does the 2020 Bitcoin price increase impact
miners?](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/how-does-
the-2020-bitcoin-price-increase-impact-miners) \- **Bitcoin mining margins
have widened as a result of Bitcoin price appreciation in 2020. While widening
margins sparks increased demand for mining rigs, this demand is currently not
being filled as the Coronavirus forced Chinese ASIC manufacturers to delay
production. Bitcoin miners are benefitting from increased prices with cost of
production remaining relatively unchanged as suppliers can’t fulfil the demand
for new hash rate.

### Quick Miner Movements

  * [Fidelity International acquires a 5.6% stake in BC Group](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-02-21/fidelity-acquires-stake-in-hong-kong-crypto-firm-bc-group), the operator of digital assets financial services provider OSL.

  * [Ukraine government does not plan to regulate crypto mining stating that the industry is “regulated by the protocol itself and network members”.](https://www.coindesk.com/ukraine-wont-regulate-crypto-mining-government-ministry-says)

  * Market-maker and OTC desk [Amber Group raises $28 million in Series A funding round](https://www.coindesk.com/crypto-finance-startup-amber-raises-28m-in-series-a-led-by-pantera-paradigm). Investors include Pantera Capital, Paradigm Capital, Polychain Capital, Blockchain.com, Coinbase Ventures, Fenbushi Capital, and Dragonfly Capital.

### Best of the Rest

 **[CoinMetrics Cryptoasset Valuation Research Primer Part 1
-](https://coinmetrics.substack.com/p/coin-metrics-state-of-the-
network-6f5?token=eyJ1c2VyX2lkIjoxMzk5Mzk5LCJwb3N0X2lkIjoyNzA2NzgsIl8iOiJua3hMcCIsImlhdCI6MTU4MTU2OTAxNSwiZXhwIjoxNTgxNTcyNjE1LCJpc3MiOiJwdWItNjI2OSIsInN1YiI6InBvc3QtcmVhY3Rpb24ifQ.WcWleYV6Na4_c0nH4k7sX46jvuQEv6CA25g6IUTdOFo)
**Frameworks for valuing crypto assets remain rudimentary. One valuation
method which has received increasing amounts of attention over the past year
is the [impact of the Bitcoin mining cost of production on market
prices](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/what-impact-do-miners-
have-on-the-bitcoin-price-market). CoinMetrics grounds cost of production
models in classical economics by referencing Adam Smith’s introduction to the
concept that market price gravitates towards the cost of producing a
commodity. CoinMetrics detail cryptocurrency research in this field since
2015. The latest research exploring this topic was published by Charles
Edwards and models Bitcoin’s value as a function of energy input.

 **[Charles Edwards forecasts Bitcoin reaching $100k within five years
-](https://twitter.com/caprioleio/status/1229139237833932800) **The two inputs
into Edwards energy-value model are hash rate and mining rig efficiency.
Edwards models estimates the growth rate in these variables over the next five
years. Growth in these input variables has declined in recent years and
Edwards anticipates this trend of declining growth to continue. Given the
input figures, Edwards forecasts price to reach $100k per Bitcoin within five
years.

### **Upcoming Mining Events**

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F69f0262d-7367-4099-9472-e9022d34e382_1280x158.jpeg)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F69f0262d-7367-4099-9472-e9022d34e382_1280x158.jpeg)

 **[Bitcoin 2020 -](https://minerupdate.com/conferences/bitcoin-2020)
**Bitcoin 2020 takes place from the 27th to the 28th of March in San
Francisco. MinerUpdate is an official media partner for the event and will be
in attendance along with several other leading Bitcoin mining companies. For
mining-related media enquiries at Bitcoin 2020, email hi@minerupdate.com.
MinerUpdate readers can get a 20% discount on tickets by using the promotion
code MINER20.

###  **About MinerUpdate.com**

[MinerUpdate.com](https://minerupdate.com/) is the leading crypto-mining
publication. Our aim is to bridge the gap between the East to the West in
mining while delivering to our readers the latest insights and developments in
the industry. Our publication is ad-free, bias-free, with no conflict of
interest when it comes to delivering high-quality content. In October 2019,
MinerUpdate hosted [MinerSummit](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-
insights/global-mining-leaders-summit-2019-recap-acknowledgements), the first
English crypto mining event in China.

###  **Connect With Us**

Did we miss any important mining movements? Let us know by tweeting
[@MinerUpdate](https://twitter.com/minerupdate) or emailing
[hi@minerupdate.com](mailto:hi@minerupdate.com).

[CommentComment](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-6/comments)

[ShareShare](javascript:void\(0\))

![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_66,h_66,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fsubstack.com%2Fimg%2Favatars%2Flogged-
out.png)

## Create your profile

Your nameYour bio Subscribe to the newsletter

0 subscriptions will be displayed on your profile (edit)

Skip for now

Save & Post Comment

## Only paid subscribers can comment on this post

[Already a paid subscriber? **Sign in**](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminermovements-6&for_pub=minerupdate&change_user=false)

#### Check your email

For your security, we need to re-authenticate you.

Click the link we sent to , or [click here to sign
in](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminermovements-6&for_pub=minerupdate&with_password=true).

TopNewCommunity[](javascript:void\(0\))

No posts

# Ready for more?

 **Subscribe**

© 2022 MinerUpdate

[Privacy](https://minerupdate.substack.com/privacy) ∙ [Terms](/tos) ∙
[Collection notice](https://substack.com/ccpa#personal-data-collected)

[ Publish on
Substack](https://substack.com/signup?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=web&utm_content=footer)[
Get the app](https://substack.com/app/app-store-redirect?utm_campaign=app-
marketing&utm_content=web-footer-button)

[Substack](https://substack.com) is the home for great writing

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please [turn on
JavaScript](https://enable-javascript.com/) or unblock scripts

