[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_96,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff6c40de1-da3d-423f-bada-f785a91c8996_256x256.png)](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

# [MinerUpdate](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

SubscribeSign in

Share this post

MinerMovements #8

minerupdate.substack.com

Copy link

Twitter

Facebook

Email

# MinerMovements #8

### Zombie Bitcoin Miners, Miner Capitulation, & The End of E3

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_90,h_90,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff5fd59f3-58d6-4f93-9d5b-285d6896931c_640x640.jpeg)](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

|

[MinerUpdate](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

| Mar 26, 2020  
---  
  
[Comment](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-8/comments)

[Share](javascript:void\(0\))  
  
We have been [reporting on the spread of Covid-19 since early
February](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-5) in our
MinerMovements releases. We were in a position to monitor the spread of the
virus early given that its origin was in China where a large share of the
Bitcoin mining industry is based.

At that point, the devastating potential of Covid-19 was not fully understood.
It is safe to say that the spread of Covid-19 is now a dominant concern
worldwide and has catalyzed a crisis which impacts our global society and
economy at all levels.

Markets price in expected future performance and all major equity indices
rightly went into virtual freefall. Bitcoin was not exempt, losing over half
of its value in the space of a few days.

As miners are deeply impacted by price movements, this decline in price had a
knock-on effect throughout the Bitcoin mining industry. This week’s cover
piece focuses on how the sharp BTC price decline has impacted Bitcoin miners.

Stay safe miners.

* * *

Get the latest insights in the mining world. Join the MinerMovements mailing
list.

 **Subscribe**

* * *

### Zombie Bitcoin Miners

Two weeks ago, the price of BTC declined over 50% in the space of two days.
The price of Bitcoin dropped from an opening of $7,940 on the 12th of March to
a low of $3,585 the following day.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F47f7aff0-9660-48e8-a9d6-311e328fdc9b_989x782.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F47f7aff0-9660-48e8-a9d6-311e328fdc9b_989x782.png)

Many considered the price drop unbelievable. **BTC price dumped below the
estimated average market-wide cost of production and even briefly beneath the
electricity cost per Bitcoin mined.**

Many analysts consider the [cost of production figure as a support
level](https://www.minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/what-impact-do-miners-
have-on-the-bitcoin-price-market) and anticipate that selling pressure from
miners will decline as price approaches this level. **[Research by Blockware
Solutions](https://www.blockwaresolutions.com/research-and-
publications/2020-halving-analysis) described in the “Miner Insights” section
below presents data that shows Bitcoin bottoms are more closely associated
with points of miner capitulation.**

And this price decline has certainly resulted in many miners capitulating.
**[Bitcoin difficulty has just recorded its second largest downward adjustment
in its history, declining by 15.95%.](https://btc.com/stats/diff)**

 **[Miners operate just above the
margin.](https://www.truthcoin.info/blog/pow-cheapest/)** If the value
available for mining one block is $100,000, miners will bid up the cost of
mining that block to close to $100,000. If the cost is less than this, more
miners enter and raise the cost. If the cost is more than potential revenue to
be realized, miners will go bankrupt and the cost declines until an
equilibrium is reached.

If this wasn’t the case and the marginal cost was less than the marginal
revenue, there would be _free lunch._ But there is no such thing as free
lunch.

 **This means that a price decline such as the one observed two weeks ago
moves a lot of miners into the red.** As Blockware Solutions have highlighted
in their research, this doesn’t mean they immediately shut off their rigs.

Contractual obligations often mean miners will continue to mine in the red for
some time after dropping below breakeven levels. [Luxor
Mining](https://minerupdate.com/pools/luxor-mining) also noted this in their
[latest newsletter release](https://luxormining.substack.com/p/hashrate-
follows-price-right-right):

> Almost everyone’s Excel model blew up this week. With the price of BTC
> between $5-6k and network hashrate barely moving, many miners have started
> operating in the red.

However, miners can’t inevitably continue to operate in the red. After
continuing to sell more BTC than they mine, depleting their treasury reserves
and exhausting financing options, miners inevitably go bankrupt and are forced
offline.

Charles Edwards from Capriole Investments has referred to leveraged miners
operating paycheck to paycheck as [“zombie” Bitcoin
miners](https://medium.com/capriole/the-coronavirus-black-swan-
part-2-8791dffe8221). In a previous analysis, Edwards highlighted a report
that [16% of US “zombie” companies were living paycheck to
paycheck](https://medium.com/capriole/the-coronavirus-black-
swan-f66a47f5c1ca).

Such companies can exist because of low-interest rate environments,
continuously rising asset prices, and access to cheap credit. However, asset
prices are plummetting and businesses don’t have a steady income from eager
consumers to meet debt obligations.

 **Miners who previously were able to run successful operations at higher
electricity prices may find themselves in similar situations.** There’s no
guarantee Bitcoin price will continue to trade at high valuations and access
to credit and financing may drastically change given the Covid-19 crisis.

> “The Bitcoin Halvening event is already a stressful period for miners as
> their revenue stream effectively halves, causing low profitability miners to
> go out of business. Add a recession to the equation and tightening credit
> lines may put a lot more “zombie” Bitcoin miners out of business in a Credit
> Crunch type event.” The [Coronavirus Black Swan Part 2, Charles
> Edwards](https://medium.com/capriole/the-coronavirus-black-swan-
> part-2-8791dffe8221)

 **These tough conditions arrive after[mining farms operators spent an
estimated $600 million on hardware upgrades](https://www.coindesk.com/price-
drop-casts-pall-over-bitcoin-miners-equipment-upgrades) in recent months.**
Mining farms had been racing to upgrade to the most powerful and efficient
ASIC hardware ahead of what many were expecting to be a significant increase
in BTC price in the lead-up to the halving.

Miners are inherently long BTC price and short difficulty. With a [new
generation of ASIC hardware recently being
announced](https://www.minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/bitcoin-hash-rate-
asic-manufacturers), miners are feeling the pressure in both areas.
Furthermore, the cost of production is expected to roughly double in less than
two months due to the [halving](https://www.minerupdate.com/news/miner-
insights/dominant-theories-as-bitcoin-halving-2020-approaches).

 _For a more detailed discussion of miners operating just above the margin and
the marginal revenue of producing a block equalling the marginal cost,
see[“Nothing is Cheaper than Proof-of-
Work”](https://www.truthcoin.info/blog/pow-cheapest/). _

[Share
MinerUpdate](https://minerupdate.substack.com/?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email&utm_content=share&action=share)

* * *

### Miner Insights-

 **[Miner Capitulation Catalyzing Healthier Bitcoin Market Dynamics
-](https://www.minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/miner-capitulation-
research) **North American ASIC hardware broker and Bitcoin mining pool
Blockware Solutions share research which presents convincing data that argues
Bitcoin bottoms are more closely associated with points of miner capitulation.
A popular theory claims that the market-wide average mining [cost of
production will act as support for the price of
Bitcoin](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/what-impact-do-miners-
have-on-the-bitcoin-price-market). Game theory analysis presented by Blockware
shows selling pressure increasing as prices approach the cost of production
levels. Prices sustaining levels below cost of production levels causes
inefficient miners to eventually go bankrupt, favourable difficulty
adjustments to follow, and the efficient miners that remain result in
healthier Bitcoin market dynamics.

 **[Bitmain Antminer E3 Approaching Obselesence as Ethereum DAG Size
Increases?](https://www.minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/bitmain-
antminer-e3-ethereum-dag-size) \- **The Bitmain Antminer E3 mining rig is
approaching redundancy for mining on the Ethereum network due to the memory
capacity of the hardware. A progressively increasing file size which is
required for mining Ethereum known as a DAG file is becoming too large for the
Antminer E3 RAM storage. The hash rate output of the mining rig on the
Ethereum network is expected to significantly decline in early April.

###  **Quick Miner Movements**

  * [Bitmain](https://www.minerupdate.com/hardware/bitmain) announces prices for the [Antminer S19 series](https://www.minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/bitcoin-hash-rate-asic-manufacturers). The S19 is priced at 15,495 RMB (~$2,183) while the S19 Pro is priced at 20,770 RMB ($2,927).

  * [Bitfarms CEO Wes Fulford resigns.](https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20200311005842/en/Bitfarms-Announces-Resignation-CEO-Issuance-Common-Shares) Emiliano Grodzki, Chief Strategy Officer and Director, currently acts as interim CEO.

  * [Bitcoin price decline brings Hut8 close to a margin call.](https://hut8mining.com/hut-8-responds-to-coronavirus-covid-19-pandemic-concerns-and-drop-in-bitcoin-price) Hut8 switches mining rigs to cost-efficient mode which reportedly reduces hash rate output by 35% and electricity cost by 50%.

###  **Best of the Rest**

 **[SLP#158 How Does a Bitcoin Price Crash Impact Bitcoin Miners?
-](https://stephanlivera.com/episode/158/) **MinerUpdate Head of Research John
joins Stephan Livera to discuss the Bitcoin mining industry and how the recent
price decline impacts miners of various sizes. The podcast episode expands
upon concepts detailed in [our previous
newsletter](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-7) which propose
that the lower a Bitcoin miner is on the cost curve, the exponentially greater
their market position is.

 **[Price Drop Casts Pall Over Bitcoin Miners Equipment Upgrade
-](https://www.coindesk.com/price-drop-casts-pall-over-bitcoin-miners-
equipment-upgrades) **Wolfie Zhao and Anna Baydakova speak with several mining
farm operators and resellers to gauge the amount invested into upgrading
facilities with the latest ASIC hardware. The article also details the
emerging business of financial services for miners whereby miners can hodl
bitcoin by receiving loans to meet their expenses.

 **[Miners Rolling Inventory
-](https://bytetree.com/insights/2020/02/bytetree-indicator/) **Bytetree
introduces an indicator to gauge the number of newly minted Bitcoin which is
being sold. The Miners Rolling Inventory (MRI) records the ratio of Bitcoin
was first spent to bitcoin generated in a given timeframe. Research by
Bytetree highlights the ratio is higher when the price is increasing,
suggesting that miners are selling their generated bitcoin into a market with
strong buyer liquidity.

###  **About MinerUpdate.com**

[MinerUpdate.com](https://minerupdate.com/) is the leading crypto-mining
publication. Our aim is to bridge the gap between the East to the West in
mining while delivering to our readers the latest insights and developments in
the industry. Our publication is ad-free, bias-free, with no conflict of
interest when it comes to delivering high-quality content. In October 2019,
MinerUpdate hosted [MinerSummit](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-
insights/global-mining-leaders-summit-2019-recap-acknowledgements), the first
English crypto mining event in China.

###  **Connect With Us**

Did we miss any important mining movements? Let us know by tweeting
[@MinerUpdate](https://twitter.com/minerupdate) or emailing
[hi@minerupdate.com](mailto:hi@minerupdate.com).

[CommentComment](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-8/comments)

[ShareShare](javascript:void\(0\))

![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_66,h_66,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fsubstack.com%2Fimg%2Favatars%2Flogged-
out.png)

## Create your profile

Your nameYour bio Subscribe to the newsletter

0 subscriptions will be displayed on your profile (edit)

Skip for now

Save & Post Comment

## Only paid subscribers can comment on this post

[Already a paid subscriber? **Sign in**](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminermovements-8&for_pub=minerupdate&change_user=false)

#### Check your email

For your security, we need to re-authenticate you.

Click the link we sent to , or [click here to sign
in](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminermovements-8&for_pub=minerupdate&with_password=true).

TopNewCommunity[](javascript:void\(0\))

No posts

# Ready for more?

 **Subscribe**

© 2022 MinerUpdate

[Privacy](https://minerupdate.substack.com/privacy) ∙ [Terms](/tos) ∙
[Collection notice](https://substack.com/ccpa#personal-data-collected)

[ Publish on
Substack](https://substack.com/signup?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=web&utm_content=footer)[
Get the app](https://substack.com/app/app-store-redirect?utm_campaign=app-
marketing&utm_content=web-footer-button)

[Substack](https://substack.com) is the home for great writing

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please [turn on
JavaScript](https://enable-javascript.com/) or unblock scripts

