[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_96,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff6c40de1-da3d-423f-bada-f785a91c8996_256x256.png)](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

# [MinerUpdate](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

SubscribeSign in

Share this post

MinerMovements #9

minerupdate.substack.com

Copy link

Twitter

Facebook

Email

# MinerMovements #9

### Hello, Is It Halving You're Looking For?

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_90,h_90,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff5fd59f3-58d6-4f93-9d5b-285d6896931c_640x640.jpeg)](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

|

[MinerUpdate](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

| Apr 9, 2020  
---  
  
[Comment](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-9/comments)

[Share](javascript:void\(0\))  
  
Amid extraordinary stimulus measures from the biggest central banks, equities
have been increasing. Bitcoin price has also been increasing since phenomenal
declines in March, resulting in miner margins widening. [The below price chart
illustrates how events have unfolded with
difficulty.](https://www.tradingview.com/x/EMGdOWWF/) **A combination of
prices increasing and difficulty undergoing its second-largest downward
adjustment provided miners with a lucrative two weeks.** Estimates for [miner
profitability over this period ranged from $0.103 to $0.152 daily per TH
deployed](https://bitinfocharts.com/comparison/bitcoin-
mining_profitability.html). In the timeframe beforehand since the March 12th
price depreciation, profitability estimates were $0.069 to $0.108. Prices have
since continued to increase while difficulty also adjusted upward by 5.77% on
the 8th of April.

Price and difficulty are both important for miners. **But with miners earning
the lions share of their revenue from the Bitcoin block subsidy, the halving
is an event which will have a significant impact on the entire Bitcoin
ecosystem.** At the time of writing, the Bitcoin halving is 33 days away. The
Bitcoin Cash halving occurred over the past 24 hours while the Bitcoin Cash SV
halving is scheduled to take place within the next 24 hours. This week’s
MinerMovements cover piece focuses on what has been the most discussed event
among Bitcoin miners for the past year.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ffa189e57-3380-4bc9-b56e-b7e9be80e444_990x781.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ffa189e57-3380-4bc9-b56e-b7e9be80e444_990x781.png)

* * *

Special thanks to Braiins / Slush Pool for sponsoring this newsletter! Check
out their new [autotuning firmware](https://braiins-
os.com/plus?utm_source=MinerUpdate&utm_medium=NewsletterIntro1) to **boost
your S9's hash rate and efficiency** by up to 30% and get **50% lower pool
fees** if you mine on their pool. (S17 & T17 coming in Q2).

[Learn More](https://braiins-
os.com/plus?utm_source=MinerUpdate&utm_medium=NewsletterIntro1)

* * *

### Halving, Antminer S9 Obsolesence, & Miner Capitulation

Encoded in the Bitcoin protocol is a reduction in the block subsidy every
210,000 blocks (roughly four years). With the [subsidy typically accounting
for >98% of miners revenue](https://btc.com/stats/fee), the event is of
significant importance to every stakeholder in the network.

 **The Bitcoin Security Budget**

Miners invest billions of capital into hardware, facilities, power, and labour
with the aim to ROI on their capital. The money miners invest in the network
can largely be considered the network’s security budget.

If this capital is not put to use for the purpose of appending blocks in the
Bitcoin blockchain, the security budget is effectively reduced. Reduction in
the security budget impacts practically every stakeholder in the network –
holders, exchanges, businesses, developers etc.

 **Long-Term Bitcoin Security - How Will Miners Be Compensated for Revenue
Reduction?**

Increases in transaction fees or price are the two ways miners can be
compensated for the decline in block subsidy. While many hold hopes for
transaction fees rising over the long-term to compensate, there has been very
little to back this up apart from increases observed to date in [transaction
fees as percentage of total rewards.](https://medium.com/@danhedl/bitcoins-
security-is-fine-93391d9b61a8?source=---------5------------------)

Industry professionals have noted concern for Bitcoins security long-term as
the block subsidy continues to decline. [Braiins co-CEO Pavel
Moravec](https://www.minerupdate.com/news/interview/slush-pool-interview-
part-2-bitcoin-block-subsidy-proof-of-stake-mining-pool-business-model)
doesn’t see the subsidy declining as an issue in the short-run but is unsure
how the dynamics will play out in the long-run.

> “In the long-run, I am slightly concerned. I don’t know how the economics
> will play out. I don’t see it as a problem in the short-term. It should not
> be an issue over the next two halvings.” Pavel Moravec

Bitcoin developers also don’t have the answers. [At an event in February,
Soona Amhaz](https://twitter.com/minerupdate/status/1228126202780479488) asked
a panel “once we can’t depend on block rewards as a sort of incentivization
for miners, will transaction fees be enough?”.

> “This is the hardest question you can ask about Bitcoin. We hope so. It’s
> really hard to know” Tadge Dryja

 **Halving & Price**

The halving acting as a catalyst for price increases in Bitcoin is another
widely discussed topic. While price did increase in the lead-up to the first
two Bitcoin halving events, the lead-up to this third halving has demonstrated
that bullish price increases as a result of halving events are anything but
guaranteed.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F1c5c85f3-526a-41b5-be9e-0bceb5eee859_1456x874.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F1c5c85f3-526a-41b5-be9e-0bceb5eee859_1456x874.png)

The post-halving $55k forecast derived from Plan B’s Stock-to-Flow model has
likely been the most widely circulated price prediction. However, there have
been countless criticisms of the model including a [recent comment from Nic
Carter](https://medium.com/braiins/the-bitcoin-halving-part-1-market-edition-
bb1b0b7a27e8).

> “I make no secret of the fact that I’m skeptical of the model. I don’t
> believe issuance changes represent [new
> information](https://medium.com/@nic__carter/an-introduction-to-the-
> efficient-market-hypothesis-for-bitcoiners-ed7e90be7c0d) being brought to
> market, so treating them as if they are information shocks seems
> incoherent.” Nic Carter

Similar to transaction fees, there are no guarantees regarding how Bitcoin
price will behave in relation to its supply issuance halving. Furthermore,
this information has been publicly known from the inception of the network.

 **Halving Simulation & Antminer S9 Obsolesence**

In the >50% March BTC price decline, we saw somewhat of a halving simulation.
Bitcoin price depreciated by over half its value in the course of two days,
bringing roughly 16% of the network below cash flow breakeven levels.

With the price drop, the inefficient miners who were lowest on the cost curve
became unprofitable and were forced to sell all of the coins they generated
while also depleting treasury reserves. They eventually reach the point of
capitulation where they are forced to turn off their equipment.

The halving will effectively repeat this process unless prices can rise in the
meantime. Miners will struggle directly after the halving but the difficulty
will ultimately adjust and those efficient miners that remain will receive the
rewards which were previously distributed to those lower on the cost curve.
[Recent research](https://www.minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/miner-
capitulation-research) from [Blockware
Solutions](https://www.minerupdate.com/hardware/blockware-solutions) presents
data that argues that this results in favourable market dynamics. As
inefficient miners are removed, those efficient miners that remain have
healthier balance sheets and need to sell less of their generated BTC in order
to meet fiat-denominated costs.

Another impact of the halving is the obsolescence of old hardware. The
Antminer S9, a rig which has been widely used by miners since its launch in
May 2016, will likely only be able to mine in regions where electricity rates
can be secured at <$0.01. [Anecdotal
reports](https://www.minerupdate.com/interviews/mining-leader-interview-
series-poolin-coo-chris-zhu) in the last quarter of 2019 noted the transition
of Antminer S9 rigs from China to regions in Kazakhstan and Iran where cheap
coal-power agreements can be secured. Recent Bitcoin nonce distribution
analysis has highlighted that large amounts of [S9 mining rigs have likely
already been turned offline](https://www.minerupdate.com/news/miner-
insights/is-the-antminer-s9-era-over).

**Halving Predictions…**

The halving has been surrounded by predictions, projections, and forecasts.
The spread of COVID-19 demonstrates the futileness of forecasting uncertain
variables. Envision how many five-year business plans took into consideration
the possibility of a pandemic which would bring the business world the
standstill.

Therefore, predictions relating to price and transaction fees should all be
considered extremely speculative. Less speculative is the fact that the mining
industry as a whole operates just above the margin. While a significant
percentage of inefficient miners were removed as a result of the March
declines, some of these will have reentered given the recent price increases.
However, the halving will be another event which will put severe pressure on
miners. At current prices, a myriad miners operating with high electricity
costs and old-generation equipment will be pushed below their breakevens and
those most efficient miners will be strongly positioned to receive their
rewards when difficulty adjusts to reflect the mass removal.

[Share
MinerUpdate](https://minerupdate.substack.com/?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email&utm_content=share&action=share)

* * *

Get the latest insights in the mining world. Join the MinerMovements mailing
list.

 **Subscribe**

* * *

###  **Quick Miner Movements;**

  * [Largest US Ethereum miner CoreWeave](https://www.coindesk.com/thousands-of-these-computers-were-mining-cryptocurrency-now-theyre-working-on-coronavirus-research) redirects computing power at distributed network aimed at finding a therapy for Coronavirus

  * [Publicly listed Ethereum mining firm Hive Technologies](https://www.newswire.ca/news-releases/hive-blockchain-doubles-global-mining-capacity-with-acquisition-of-30-mw-bitcoin-operation-in-canada-867610176.html) acquires 30 MW Bitcoin mining facility from Cryptologic for $4 million. At current [estimates of Bitcoin energy draw,](https://www.cbeci.org/) a 30 MW farm would represent roughly 0.3% of Bitcoin network hash rate.

  * CME Director’s board of directors nominee proposes that the [CME Group begin Bitcoin mining](https://finance.yahoo.com/news/cme-group-board-directors-nominee-143723179.html) as a new revenue stream for shareholders.

###  **Best of the Rest:**

 **[Hashr8 Podcast - Matthew D’Souza: Bitcoin Mining& Macro Trends
-](https://thedailychain.com/hashr8-podcast-matthew-dsouza-bitcoin-mining-
macro-trends/) **Blockware Solutions CEO Matt D’Souza joins the Hashr8 crew
for an informative episode which details the recent research released by
Blockware that highlights cycles of [miner
capitulation](https://www.minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/miner-
capitulation-research). Matt also shares his views on recent macroeconomic
developments and what it may mean for Bitcoin.

 **[Why Bitcoin Miners Will Keep Mining
-](https://coinsharesgroup.com/insights/why-bitcoin-miners-will-keep-mining)
**CoinShares Head of Research Chris Bendiksen details how the cost miners
incur is a function of difficulty. The difficulty adjustment mechanism is in
place to keep production in Bitcoin constant. If price falls 10% in a
commodity such as iron, you can expect production to drop. However, if price
falls 10% in Bitcoin, the difficulty will adjust to keep production constant
while the reward which was previously going to miners operating just above the
margin are distributed to more efficient miners. Chris illustrates the idea
succinctly with the below diagrams.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fa90ab879-a37e-4d1f-b00e-d88134a27e49_1024x768.jpeg)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fa90ab879-a37e-4d1f-b00e-d88134a27e49_1024x768.jpeg)

 **[Coin Metrics’ State of the Network: Issue 44
-](https://coinmetrics.substack.com/p/coin-metrics-state-of-the-network-e18)**
CoinMetrics proposes a framework which highlights miners having a “pro-
cyclical” impact on Bitcoin prices. When prices are high, miners are required
to sell less of their generated BTC to meet fiat-denominated costs and vice-
versa. The team anticipates profit margins for miners continuing to be
squeezed, increased selling, capitulation, and removal of the most inefficient
miners from the network.

 **[CoinMetrics’ State of the Network: Issue 45
-](https://coinmetrics.substack.com/p/coin-metrics-state-of-the-network-375)
**Until recently, Antminer S9 mining rigs have represented a dominant share of
Bitcoin hash rate since their release in May 2016. Price declines and the
upcoming halving are forcing S9 rigs offline. An analysis of the Bitcoin nonce
distribution shows the disappearance of a mysterious pattern which originally
arose when the Antminer S7 and S9 began mining. The disappearance of this
pattern suggests that increasing numbers of S9 rigs are beginning to turn
offline, with the Antminer S17 series becoming the dominant ASIC.

* * *

Once again, a big thanks to Braiins / Slush Pool for sponsoring this
newsletter! Check out their new [autotuning firmware](https://braiins-
os.com/plus?utm_source=MinerUpdate&utm_medium=NewsletterBanner1) to **boost
your S9's hash rate and efficiency** by up to 30% and get **50% lower pool
fees** if you mine on their pool. (S17 & T17 coming in Q2).

[Learn More](https://braiins-
os.com/plus?utm_source=MinerUpdate&utm_medium=NewsletterBanner1)

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F7358d8a7-abe6-4ee2-9bbb-0d7fd9389864_1600x840.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F7358d8a7-abe6-4ee2-9bbb-0d7fd9389864_1600x840.png)

* * *

###  **About MinerUpdate.com**

[MinerUpdate.com](https://minerupdate.com/) is the leading crypto-mining
publication. Our aim is to bridge the gap between the East to the West in
mining while delivering to our readers the latest insights and developments in
the industry. In October 2019, MinerUpdate hosted
[MinerSummit](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/global-mining-
leaders-summit-2019-recap-acknowledgements), the first English crypto mining
event in China.

###  **Connect With Us**

Did we miss any important mining movements? Let us know by tweeting
[@MinerUpdate](https://twitter.com/minerupdate) or emailing
[hi@minerupdate.com](mailto:hi@minerupdate.com).

[CommentComment](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-9/comments)

[ShareShare](javascript:void\(0\))

![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_66,h_66,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fsubstack.com%2Fimg%2Favatars%2Flogged-
out.png)

## Create your profile

Your nameYour bio Subscribe to the newsletter

0 subscriptions will be displayed on your profile (edit)

Skip for now

Save & Post Comment

## Only paid subscribers can comment on this post

[Already a paid subscriber? **Sign in**](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminermovements-9&for_pub=minerupdate&change_user=false)

#### Check your email

For your security, we need to re-authenticate you.

Click the link we sent to , or [click here to sign
in](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminermovements-9&for_pub=minerupdate&with_password=true).

TopNewCommunity[](javascript:void\(0\))

No posts

# Ready for more?

 **Subscribe**

© 2022 MinerUpdate

[Privacy](https://minerupdate.substack.com/privacy) ∙ [Terms](/tos) ∙
[Collection notice](https://substack.com/ccpa#personal-data-collected)

[ Publish on
Substack](https://substack.com/signup?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=web&utm_content=footer)[
Get the app](https://substack.com/app/app-store-redirect?utm_campaign=app-
marketing&utm_content=web-footer-button)

[Substack](https://substack.com) is the home for great writing

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please [turn on
JavaScript](https://enable-javascript.com/) or unblock scripts

