[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_96,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff6c40de1-da3d-423f-bada-f785a91c8996_256x256.png)](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

# [MinerUpdate](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

SubscribeSign in

Share this post

Miner Movements #1

minerupdate.substack.com

Copy link

Twitter

Facebook

Email

# Miner Movements #1

### Bitcoin Miners Still Profitable, Bitmain Strategy Shuffle, & Monero Moves
to CPU Mining

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_90,h_90,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff5fd59f3-58d6-4f93-9d5b-285d6896931c_640x640.jpeg)](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

|

[MinerUpdate](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

| Dec 17, 2019  
---  
  
[Comment](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/miner-movements-1/comments)

[Share](javascript:void\(0\))  
  
Welcome to the first edition of what will be a regular newsletter published by
the MinerUpdate editorial team. The Miner Movements newsletter will cover the
latest developments in the mining world while also summarizing the most
relevant mining content published by MinerUpdate and other media outlets.

* * *

## The Devil is in the Data -

### Pool Rankings

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F16fb25ef-a901-4e17-8f51-12bcc1dc42d4_1153x678.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F16fb25ef-a901-4e17-8f51-12bcc1dc42d4_1153x678.png)

[Poolin](https://minerupdate.com/pools/poolin),
[BTC.com](https://minerupdate.com/pools/btc-com), and F2Pool have been the
dominant Bitcoin mining pools of 2019. According to data from BTC.com, these
three Bitcoin mining pools have mined the largest share of Bitcoin blocks over
the past three days, collectively accounting for over 46% of the Bitcoin hash
rate.

### Hash Rate & Difficulty

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Faf367929-14d0-414f-8dcd-
daa6678bc0e7_1440x290.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Faf367929-14d0-414f-8dcd-
daa6678bc0e7_1440x290.png)

Data from [Bitinfocharts.com](https://bitinfocharts.com/comparison/bitcoin-
hashrate.html) currently estimates the Bitcoin hash rate to be 90.7 EH/s with
the seven-day moving average over the past year illustrated above. BTC.com is
currently estimating that the [mining difficulty
level](https://btc.com/stats/diff) will increase by 1.89% at the next
adjustment. Since the past adjustment, the [average block
time](https://bitinfocharts.com/comparison/confirmationtime-btc-eth-ltc-
doge.html) has been 9 minutes.

### Bitcoin Price

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Feaa84bfb-9054-4b61-a81a-107afca6e37b_992x669.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Feaa84bfb-9054-4b61-a81a-107afca6e37b_992x669.png)

Bitcoin price depreciated 5.39% during trading last week. At the time of
writing, bitcoin price is trading at $6,910. Despite the price declines,
recent research from both [CoinShares](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-
insights/majority-of-bitcoin-miners-profitable-at-current-prices-according-to-
coinshares-research) and our [Miner
Insight](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/how-has-the-recent-price-
drop-impacted-bitcoin-miner-profitability) reports suggests the majority of
Bitcoin miners are still profitable.

* * *

Don’t miss the latest developments and insights taking place in the mining
world. Join the Miner Movements mailing list.

 **Subscribe**

* * *

## Miner Insights -

**[Bitmain Unveils New Strategies at Chengdu
Event](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/bitmain-unveils-new-
strategies-at-chengdu-event) \- **In an event exclusive to Bitmain customers,
the Bitcoin ASIC hardware giant detailed several strategies characteristic of
an industry which is maturing. The strategies detailed include offering more
attractive purchasing terms to customers, offering hedges against bitcoin
price declining, and a co-mining agreement available to farm owners where
Bitmain covers electricity costs.

 **[What Impact do Miners Have on the Bitcoin Price
Market?](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/what-impact-do-miners-
have-on-the-bitcoin-price-market) \- **Research issued by hedge fund Paradigma
Capital highlights that miners account for a small share of Bitcoin on-chain
volume and a minuscule amount of off-chain volume. While the research suggest
that the impact of miners on Bitcoin price may be minimal, CEO of Blockware
Solutions Matt D’Souza suggests that movements of funds from miners is far
more significant than typical trading volume as it represents new capital
coming into the market.

 **[How has the Recent Price Drop Impacted Bitcoin Miner
Profitability?](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/how-has-the-
recent-price-drop-impacted-bitcoin-miner-profitability) \- **Although bitcoin
price has declined significantly in recent weeks, data provided to MinerUpdate
by TokenInsight suggests that most miners are still profitable. Efficient
miners using latest generation hardware with an electricity cost of less than
$0.03 per kWh may have an electricity cost as low as $1,400 per bitcoin mined.

 **[CPU Mining Dominates Monero Since RandomX
Upgrade](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/cpu-mining-dominates-
monero-since-randomx-upgrade) \- **The Monero network has regularly hard
forked since early 2018 to prevent ASICs from mining on the network. The
latest upgrade to the RandomX mining algorithm has also largely pushed GPU
miners away from the Monero network.

 **[Power Efficient Hardware Dominates Bitcoin Mining in Q3 As Hardware Arms
Race Unfolds](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/power-efficient-
hardware-dominates-bitcoin-mining-in-q3-as-hardware-arms-race-unfolds) \- **In
their Q3 overview of the Bitcoin mining industry, research firm TokenInsight
has highlighted that the most power-efficient hardware has outperformed amid
the conditions of declining prices, rising hash rate, and rising difficulty
levels. TokenInsight’s report discusses the pressure hardware manufacturers
are feeling to release increasingly efficient hardware and anticipates updates
relating to the Antminer S19 series and WhatsMiner M30 series in Q1 2020.

* * *

###  **Best of the Rest -**

 **[What’s Halvening
#2](http://whatshalvening.btc.libsynpro.com/ep-2-apolline-blandin-and-john-
quigley-on-bitcion-energy-consumption) \- **Cassie Clifton of Bitcoin Magazine
is joined by Cambridge Centre for Alternative Finance (CCAF) researcher
Apolline Blandin and MinerUpdate.com Head of Research John Lee Quigley. The
trio discuss the energy consumption of the Bitcoin network and the [real-time
index which CCAF designe](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-
insights/cambridge-launches-bitcoin-electricity-consumption-index-with-plans-
for-renewables-energy-estimate)d to estimate this consumption.

 **[Bitcoin Mining in North
America](https://bitcoinmagazine.com/articles/bitcoin-mining-in-north-america-
a-new-gold-rush-in-the-new-world) \- **Bitcoin Magazine’s **** Jessie Willms
details Bitcoin mining developments in North America and Canada. With
increasing amounts of regulatory uncertainty relating to mining in China, the
prospects of the Bitcoin mining industry in North America is looking more
promising than ever.

 **[The State of Bitcoin Mining](https://messari.io/article/the-state-of-
bitcoin-mining)\- **The Messari team outline the latest fundraise to take
place in the world of Bitcoin mining while giving an overview of some recent
operations which have set up in North America. The team also detail some of
the key takeaways from CoinShare’s latest research report.

* * *

### About MinerUpdate.com

[MinerUpdate.com](https://minerupdate.com/) is the leading crypto-mining
publication. Our aim is to bridge the gap between the East to the West in
mining while delivering to our readers the latest insights and developments in
the industry. Our publication is ad-free, bias-free, with no conflict of
interest when it comes to delivering high-quality content. In October 2019,
MinerUpdate hosted [MinerSummit](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-
insights/global-mining-leaders-summit-2019-recap-acknowledgements).

* * *

### Connect With Us

Did we miss any important mining movements? Let us know by tweeting
[@MinerUpdate](https://twitter.com/minerupdate) or emailing
hi@minerupdate.com. If you got value from this newsletter, please share with
your fellow miners.

[Share](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/miner-
movements-1?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email&utm_content=share&action=share)

[CommentComment](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/miner-
movements-1/comments)

[ShareShare](javascript:void\(0\))

![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_66,h_66,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fsubstack.com%2Fimg%2Favatars%2Flogged-
out.png)

## Create your profile

Your nameYour bio Subscribe to the newsletter

0 subscriptions will be displayed on your profile (edit)

Skip for now

Save & Post Comment

## Only paid subscribers can comment on this post

[Already a paid subscriber? **Sign in**](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminer-movements-1&for_pub=minerupdate&change_user=false)

#### Check your email

For your security, we need to re-authenticate you.

Click the link we sent to , or [click here to sign
in](https://substack.com/sign-in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminer-
movements-1&for_pub=minerupdate&with_password=true).

TopNewCommunity[](javascript:void\(0\))

No posts

# Ready for more?

 **Subscribe**

© 2022 MinerUpdate

[Privacy](https://minerupdate.substack.com/privacy) ∙ [Terms](/tos) ∙
[Collection notice](https://substack.com/ccpa#personal-data-collected)

[ Publish on
Substack](https://substack.com/signup?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=web&utm_content=footer)[
Get the app](https://substack.com/app/app-store-redirect?utm_campaign=app-
marketing&utm_content=web-footer-button)

[Substack](https://substack.com) is the home for great writing

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please [turn on
JavaScript](https://enable-javascript.com/) or unblock scripts

