[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_96,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff6c40de1-da3d-423f-bada-f785a91c8996_256x256.png)](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

# [MinerUpdate](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

SubscribeSign in

Share this post

MinerMovements #3

minerupdate.substack.com

Copy link

Twitter

Facebook

Email

# MinerMovements #3

### The 2020 Halving, Ethereum Hard Forks, & Bitmain Slash Staff

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_90,h_90,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff5fd59f3-58d6-4f93-9d5b-285d6896931c_640x640.jpeg)](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

|

[MinerUpdate](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

| Jan 8, 2020  
---  
  
[Comment](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-3/comments)

[Share](javascript:void\(0\))  
  
A new decade has dawned and the [MinerUpdate.com](https://minerupdate.com/)
team wishes all of our subscribed miners a happy halving year! MinerUpdate
launched in April 2019 and a lot has happened since we began our mission of
delivering high-quality news and research to the mining world. We have met
with a huge variety of miners from all over the globe and launched our
inaugural [MinerSummit](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/global-
mining-leaders-summit-2019-recap-acknowledgements) event in Chengdu. We are
grateful for all of the miners who have tuned into our content and we will
certainly be delivering more high-quality events and content in 2020!

* * *

Don’t miss the latest developments and insights taking place in the mining
world. Join the MinerMovements mailing list.

 **Subscribe**

* * *

### Mining Pool Rankings

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F63d34898-5d71-4ef5-b8cd-6c392fbdfcce_1163x681.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F63d34898-5d71-4ef5-b8cd-6c392fbdfcce_1163x681.png)

[Data from BTC.com](https://btc.com/stats/pool?pool_mode=week) highlights that
after the first week of Bitcoin mining in 2020, the dominant pools of 2019 –
[Poolin](https://minerupdate.com/pools/poolin), F2Pool, and
[BTC.com](https://minerupdate.com/pools/btc-com) – remain in the top three
positions. Collectively, these three pools are estimated to account for over
45% of Bitcoin hash rate.

### Bitcoin Hash Rate & Difficulty Level

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fe7b375ef-c933-4c69-a861-23d0f9ac07de_1440x304.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fe7b375ef-c933-4c69-a861-23d0f9ac07de_1440x304.png)

Data from [Bitinfocharts](https://bitinfocharts.com/comparison/hashrate-btc-
sma7.html) estimates that Bitcoin hash rate has hit an all-time high in 2020.
The seven-day moving average of hash rate illustrated above is currently
recording a value of 108 EH/s. [Raw values from
Bitinfocharts](https://bitinfocharts.com/comparison/bitcoin-hashrate.html)
have recorded hash rate figures as high as 117 EH/s.

Bitcoin mining difficulty is also at all-time highs at 13.79 trillion after
it’s the latest adjustment on New Year’s Day. The [difficulty
level](https://btc.com/stats/diff) is currently estimated to increase another
~8.78% to 15 trillion at the next adjustment in six days based on analysis of
block times by BTC.com.

Some miners have reported to us that S9-generation hardware accounts for over
half of the Bitcoin hash rate. At current prices, most mining operations
running such hardware will be forced to shut down. Several Chinese mining
operations have also reported transitioning this generation of mining rigs
overseas to regions such as Kazakhstan and Iran with lower electricity rates.
If price levels remain around current prices beyond the halving, a significant
drop in hash rate may be observed if large volumes of this generation of
hardware cannot be migrated to regions with lower levels of electricity rate.

### Bitcoin Price

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F1aac1f2e-f853-4848-b4a8-47c4319e1afb_992x688.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F1aac1f2e-f853-4848-b4a8-47c4319e1afb_992x688.png)

After three price declines to sub-$7k, bitcoin price has recorded strong
upside movements on it’s latest return above $7k. Bitcoin price has recorded a
15% appreciation open-to-high over the past three trading days with price
trading at $8,274 at the time of writing. If the price appreciation is
sustained, it may spur further increases in hash rate and difficulty. There is
potential that mining rigs which may have been turned offline during the Q4
bitcoin price depreciation could be turned back online.

* * *

###  **Miner Insights-**

 **[Dominant Theories as Bitcoin Halving 2020
Approaches](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/dominant-theories-as-
bitcoin-halving-2020-approaches) \- **MinerUpdate explores the dominant
theories relating to how Bitcoin price and fees will react to the 2020
halving. Increases in fees and bitcoin price are two methods by which bitcoin
miners can be compensated for declining block subsidies but evidence
supporting increases is far from certain.

 **[Ethereum Muir Glacier Upgrade](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-
insights/ethereum-approaches-muir-glacier-hard-fork-upgrade) \- **Ethereum
completes its second hard fork upgrade in less than 30 days to address mining
difficulty levels rising faster than originally anticipated. In this piece, we
detail what the Ethereum difficulty bomb is, what the Ethereum Ice Age is, and
why the Ethereum core dev team decided to execute another hard fork to delay
the onset of the difficulty bomb taking place.

###  **Quick Miner Movements -**

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ffecc81fb-8896-4004-917b-2bbe81d724f9_1440x297.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ffecc81fb-8896-4004-917b-2bbe81d724f9_1440x297.png)

  *  **[Monero hash rate](https://bitinfocharts.com/comparison/monero-hashrate.html) has recently recorded all-time highs** of roughly 1.16 GH/s. [Monero recently changed its mining algorithm to RandomX ](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/cpu-mining-dominates-monero-since-randomx-upgrade)in a network upgrade. 

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F08172ab2-e942-4715-b903-d8952f9ab8be_1227x425.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F08172ab2-e942-4715-b903-d8952f9ab8be_1227x425.png)

  * **[Ethereum block times](https://etherscan.io/chart/blocktime) reduced by roughly 25%** post-upgrade. With the [Muir Glacier](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/ethereum-approaches-muir-glacier-hard-fork-upgrade) upgrade resulting in lower mining difficulty levels on the Ethereum network, the block times reduced from an average daily block time of 17.16 seconds on January 1st to approximately 13 seconds since January 3rd. 

  * **[Bitmain Slash Staff](https://decrypt.co/15799/bitmain-to-cut-workforce-in-half-ahead-of-bitcoin-halvening?utm_source=reddit&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=sm) -** It is reported that Bitmain has laid off half of their workforce. The 2020 halving and it’s expected negative impact on the Bitcoin mining industry is being spread as the reason for the major layoff. However, one miner we spoke with offered an alternative explanation. He held that Bitmain is likely facing issues given developments over the past two years and the halving offers the perfect time to lay off large amounts of staff.

### Best of the Rest

 **[Bitcoin’s Production Cost](https://medium.com/capriole/bitcoins-
production-cost-88d889462ea7) \- **Charles Edwards of Capriole Investments
explores the highly debated topic of whether the [cost of production Bitcoin
miners](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/what-impact-do-miners-
have-on-the-bitcoin-price-market) incur per bitcoin mined acts as a price
floor for market movements. Edwards finds evidence that the electricity cost
of production per bitcoin mined acts as a price floor for market price
movements with bitcoin price historically falling below total production cost
for only brief spells of time. Data from the [Cambridge Bitcoin Electricity
Consumption Index](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/cambridge-
launches-bitcoin-electricity-consumption-index-with-plans-for-renewables-
energy-estimate) is used to estimate the electricity production cost and total
production cost.

 **[Bitcoin Energy Value Equivalence](https://medium.com/capriole/bitcoin-
value-energy-equivalence-6d00d1baa34a) \- **Charles Edwards of Capriole
Investments builds upon his cost of production work to propose a relationship
between Bitcoin value and the energy input into the network. One of the key
findings of the research argues that if the energy put into the Bitcoin
network drops to zero, value would follow. Such an observation is interesting
given the hype that the price to scarcity (stock-to-flow) model has generated
over the past year. The findings of this study highlight that the relationship
between scarcity and price should not be considered in isolation and it is
highly likely that energy also closely ties to value.

 **[What’s Halvening #4
-](http://whatshalvening.btc.libsynpro.com/ep-4-balancing-the-grid-with-chris-
bendiksen) **Cassie Clifton hosts CoinShares Director of Research Chris
Bendiksen who covers the key findings of the recently published [CoinShares
Bitcoin mining research report](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-
insights/majority-of-bitcoin-miners-profitable-at-current-prices-according-to-
coinshares-research). Chris anticipates that at current prices, the hash rate
behind the Bitcoin network would drop by 50% after the halving. Prices would
need to double for the hash rate to remain at current levels according to
Chris. This episode is also a great discussion for gaining a deeper
understanding of how upfront capital expenditure costs relate to mining
operations. Chris clearly differentiates between all-in ROI breakeven and cash
flow breakeven, explaining why miners are only forced to shut down when prices
drop below cash flow breakeven.

* * *

###  **About MinerUpdate.com**

[MinerUpdate.com](https://minerupdate.com/) is the leading crypto-mining
publication. Our aim is to bridge the gap between the East to the West in
mining while delivering to our readers the latest insights and developments in
the industry. Our publication is ad-free, bias-free, with no conflict of
interest when it comes to delivering high-quality content. In October 2019,
MinerUpdate hosted [MinerSummit](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-
insights/global-mining-leaders-summit-2019-recap-acknowledgements), the first
English crypto mining event in China.

* * *

###  **Connect With Us**

Did we miss any important mining movements? Let us know by tweeting
[@MinerUpdate](https://twitter.com/minerupdate) or emailing
hi@minerupdate.com.

 **Subscribe**

[
CommentComment](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-3/comments)

[ShareShare](javascript:void\(0\))

![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_66,h_66,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fsubstack.com%2Fimg%2Favatars%2Flogged-
out.png)

## Create your profile

Your nameYour bio Subscribe to the newsletter

0 subscriptions will be displayed on your profile (edit)

Skip for now

Save & Post Comment

## Only paid subscribers can comment on this post

[Already a paid subscriber? **Sign in**](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminermovements-3&for_pub=minerupdate&change_user=false)

#### Check your email

For your security, we need to re-authenticate you.

Click the link we sent to , or [click here to sign
in](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminermovements-3&for_pub=minerupdate&with_password=true).

TopNewCommunity[](javascript:void\(0\))

No posts

# Ready for more?

 **Subscribe**

© 2022 MinerUpdate

[Privacy](https://minerupdate.substack.com/privacy) ∙ [Terms](/tos) ∙
[Collection notice](https://substack.com/ccpa#personal-data-collected)

[ Publish on
Substack](https://substack.com/signup?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=web&utm_content=footer)[
Get the app](https://substack.com/app/app-store-redirect?utm_campaign=app-
marketing&utm_content=web-footer-button)

[Substack](https://substack.com) is the home for great writing

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please [turn on
JavaScript](https://enable-javascript.com/) or unblock scripts

