[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_96,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff6c40de1-da3d-423f-bada-f785a91c8996_256x256.png)](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

# [MinerUpdate](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

SubscribeSign in

Share this post

MinerMovements #11

minerupdate.substack.com

Copy link

Twitter

Facebook

Email

# MinerMovements #11

### A Perfect Pre-Halving Storm For S9s üå™Ô∏è

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_90,h_90,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff5fd59f3-58d6-4f93-9d5b-285d6896931c_640x640.jpeg)](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

|

[MinerUpdate](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

| May 8, 2020  
---  
  
[Comment1](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-11/comments)

[Share](javascript:void\(0\))  
  
[MinerUpdate](https://www.minerupdate.com/) hosted their first virtual
conference this week. MineBlown was a huge success featuring a phenomenal
speaker line-up, virtual rooms to network, and even Miner Tinder!

We want to thank our speakers Matthew Black, Marty Bent, Whit Gibbs, Wes
Fulford, Ethan Vera, and Leslie Lamb for sharing their insights with
attendees. We also want to thank supporting companies including Tales from the
Crypt, Amber Group, [Luxor Mining](https://www.minerupdate.com/pools/luxor-
mining), and Atomic Loans.

The event also would not have been possible without attendees taking the time
to join us. We had mining enthusiasts joining from across the globe including
China, North America, Europe, Canada, and South East Asia!

The dominant theme of the event was the financialization of the mining
industry. How derivative products and financial services will change the
mining landscape was discussed in depth.

If you missed it, you can check out the [recap of MineBlown
here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Za0Qt8DIUsQ). We will also be lining up
future virtual conferences on an even bigger scale! In the meantime, share
this newsletter with a friend, colleague, or family member as there‚Äôs no fun
in keeping the best mining insights all to yourself!

[Share
MinerUpdate](https://minerupdate.substack.com/?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email&utm_content=share&action=share)

* * *

Get the latest insights in the mining world. Join the MinerMovements mailing
list.

 **Subscribe**

* * *

### The S9 Storm üå™Ô∏è

 **The Antminer S9 was a phenomenal leap in Bitcoin mining innovation.** The
rig had roughly a 3x improvement in both hash rate and energy efficiency over
its S7 predecessor. At the time of its June 2016 release, the S9 was vastly
more powerful than any other mining equipment on the market.

S9 rigs quickly became the dominant force in Bitcoin mining. At its peak
around April 2018, it is estimated that [80% of network hash
rate](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KXMq5jcbgqJ6a5io1Fi_-3LbBdAV1Qc_/view)
was attributable to S9 hardware. But with vastly more powerful and efficient
hardware becoming available over the past year, **it has long been forecasted
that the S9 is at the exit door.** The [latest
research](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KXMq5jcbgqJ6a5io1Fi_-3LbBdAV1Qc_/view)
indeed shows that the S9 series share of hash rate has declined to roughly
23%. Furthermore, it is believed that [roughly half of all S9
hardware](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KXMq5jcbgqJ6a5io1Fi_-3LbBdAV1Qc_/view)
is unused and sitting offline.

The halving was the upcoming event that was destined to be the nail in the S9
coffin. With Bitcoin price hitting roughly $3,500 in March amid record
difficulty levels, it seemed a sure thing that the S9 mining rig would become
obsolete. But **market conditions can change rapidly and the past six weeks
have brewed a perfect pre-halving storm for S9s.**

Firstly, **the appreciation in Bitcoin price has completely changed the
profitability prospects for miners with S9s on their balance sheet**. The
~180% price increase from the March low to the May 7th high has brought many
miners who would have been below breakeven post-halving back into profitable
territory.

Secondly, **the latest difficulty adjustment was also favourable to miners
with only an increase of 0.92% recorded.** Two weeks ago, the outlook for
miners was still hugely uncertain. Price struggled to increase from trading in
mid-$7ks and [most market participants maintained a dim
outlook](https://twitter.com/bitcoinnomadic/status/1257591501720178691). With
mining prospects remaining uncertain, miners who had turned their operations
offline may have been hesitant to restart. Such hesitancy would certainly be
reflected in the difficulty adjustment with the change suggesting that roughly
1% more computing power was deployed on the network since the prior
adjustment.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F5105f9f3-1529-42cf-9624-63692b53783f_992x726.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F5105f9f3-1529-42cf-9624-63692b53783f_992x726.png)

Furthermore, **forex market movements have given rise to unique circumstances
whereby Bitcoin miners based outside North America are benefitting
from[domestic currencies
devaluing](https://www.tradingview.com/x/HRuMnxVc/).** Miners earn Bitcoin but
pay their utility bills and other expenses in fiat. Major domestic currencies
have devalued significantly against the USD this year. Expenses become _de
facto_ cheaper for businesses generating revenue in a stronger currency (e.g.
BTC). Recent data has shown [Russia, Kazakhstan, and
Malaysia](https://www.cbeci.org/mining_map) to consistently be in the top five
regions with the most Bitcoin has rate worldwide. As illustrated above, the
domestic currencies of each of these economies has declined significantly
against USD. Put another way, [Bitcoin has appreciated 36% year-to-date
against USD](https://www.tradingview.com/x/9sBBQcJJ/). But against RUB,
Bitcoin has appreciated 59%.

That‚Äôs not all. [Braiins](https://www.minerupdate.com/pools/slush-pool) has
recently released [firmware for S9 rigs](https://braiins-
os.com/plus?utm_source=MinerUpdate&utm_medium=NewsletterIntro1) that can boost
hash rate capacity to over 17 TH/s while improving efficiency by up to 20%.
Let‚Äôs also not forget the price of the rigs themselves. **S9s have been
selling on secondhand marketplaces for[as low as
$20](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KXMq5jcbgqJ6a5io1Fi_-3LbBdAV1Qc_/view).**
At the current price and difficulty levels and $0.05 per kWh electricity rate,
estimates show [S9 models operating ~35% gross
margins](https://www.f2pool.com/miners?currency_code=btc#list-head). With
[rainy season in Sichuan](https://twitter.com/bitcoinnomadic) starting and
electricity deals at less than and below $0.03 per kWh becoming more common,
everything seems to be aligned to extend the lifespan of S9s.

But there is one factor which could damper the chances of S9s continuing to be
profitable. **Dispersion of the latest generation hardware, the S19 series and
Whatsminer M30S series, will increase the hash rate output of the network.**
This will increase difficulty which will push up the cost miners incur. The
least powerful and efficient equipment will be pushed closest to breakeven
levels. The first batch of S19s is scheduled to be delivered this month. The
second batch is currently selling for delivery in August. Several factors have
been in favour of S9s continuing to hold a significant share of hash rate post
halving. But the chances of sustaining a significant share far beyond the
halving are much lower.

* * *

### Miner Insights;

 **[ASIC Mining Rig Manufacturer Ebang Files for $100 Million US IPO
-](https://www.minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/ebang-ipo) **Top four
Bitcoin mining manufacturer Ebang files with the SEC to list on the NASDAQ or
NYSE under the ticker symbol ‚ÄúEBON‚Äù. This marks Ebangs‚Äô second attempt to
execute an IPO after an application to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in 2018
failed to be carried out.

### Quick Miner Movements;

  * Cambridge Centre for Alternative Finance launches a [Bitcoin Mining Map](https://cbeci.org/mining_map) to estimate global distribution of hash rate from Q3 2019 to April 2020.

  * Several reports surface of [issues with Antminer S17 rigs](https://cointelegraph.com/news/crypto-mining-giant-bitmain-confirms-problems-with-antminer-s17-units/amp). Blockstream CSO Samson tweeted that the hardware has a 20-30% failure rate.

###  **Best of the Rest;**

 **[Hashr8 Podcast - Hashrate Spot& Future Markets with Ethan Vera -
](https://thedailychain.com/hashr8-podcast-hashrate-spot-futures-markets-w-
ethan-vera/)**Luxor Mining CFO Ethan Vera discusses how Luxor value hash rate
internally. Vera also details what future hash rate market places will look
like and how hash rate may be the first market where speculators can trade
computing power.

 **[Chinese City Known for Bitcoin Mining Seeks Blockchain Firms to Burn
Excess Hydropower ‚Äì](https://www.coindesk.com/chinese-city-known-for-bitcoin-
mining-seeks-blockchain-firms-to-burn-excess-hydropower) **Government
authorities in Ya‚Äôan, a city in China‚Äôs Sichuan province, have issued public
guidance to urge ‚Äúblockchain‚Äù firms to set up operations to make use of the
excess hydropower generated in the region.

 **[Hut8: The Struggle‚Äôs of One of Canada‚Äôs Largest Bitcoin Miners
-](https://www.coindesk.com/crypto-investment-research/hut-8-the-struggles-of-
one-of-canadas-largest-miners)** CoinDesk research analyst Matt Yamamoto dives
into the financial reports of Hut8 and highlights the struggles the company
has faced. Yamamoto details the relationship between
[Bitfury](https://www.minerupdate.com/hardware/bitfury-pool) and Hut8 and how
Bitfury‚Äôs inability to stay at the forefront of Bitcoin ASIC innovation
hindered the competitiveness of Hut8.

 **[The Grasshopper and the Antminer -](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/defi-
discussions/79)** CoinMetrics analyst Karim Helmy uses nonce distribution data
to estimate how much of the current Bitcoin hash power is represented by
Antminer S9 series rigs. Anomalies in the nonce distribution is assumed to
represent the prevalence of S9 rigs. The nonce data is extrapolated to
estimate that 23% of the current network hash rate is represented by Antminer
S9 rigs. It is also estimated that currently 25 EH/s of Antminer S9 series
rigs are unused and sitting offline.

* * *

###  **About MinerUpdate.com**

[MinerUpdate.com](https://minerupdate.com/) is the leading crypto-mining
publication. Our aim is to bridge the gap between the East to the West in
mining while delivering to our readers the latest insights and developments in
the industry. In October 2019, MinerUpdate hosted
[MinerSummit](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/global-mining-
leaders-summit-2019-recap-acknowledgements), the first English crypto mining
event in China.

###  **Connect With Us**

Did we miss any important mining movements? Let us know by tweeting
[@MinerUpdate](https://twitter.com/minerupdate) or emailing
[hi@minerupdate.com](mailto:hi@minerupdate.com).

[Comment1](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-11/comments)

[ShareShare](javascript:void\(0\))

![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_66,h_66,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fsubstack.com%2Fimg%2Favatars%2Flogged-
out.png)

## Create your profile

Your nameYour bio Subscribe to the newsletter

0 subscriptions will be displayed on your profile (edit)

Skip for now

Save & Post Comment

## Only paid subscribers can comment on this post

[Already a paid subscriber? **Sign in**](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminermovements-11&for_pub=minerupdate&change_user=false)

#### Check your email

For your security, we need to re-authenticate you.

Click the link we sent to , or [click here to sign
in](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminermovements-11&for_pub=minerupdate&with_password=true).

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_66,h_66,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fe780aa1b-9e6a-4e76-9b3e-30052e43e6aa_144x144.png)](https://substack.com/profile/8382174-rossari)

|

[Rossari](javascript:void\(0\))

[May 8,
2020](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-11/comment/202993)Liked
by MinerUpdate

Thanks so much! Awesome work!

Expand full comment

[Reply](javascript:void\(0\))  
  
---|---  
  
TopNewCommunity[](javascript:void\(0\))

No posts

# Ready for more?

 **Subscribe**

¬© 2022 MinerUpdate

[Privacy](https://minerupdate.substack.com/privacy) ‚àô [Terms](/tos) ‚àô
[Collection notice](https://substack.com/ccpa#personal-data-collected)

[ Publish on
Substack](https://substack.com/signup?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=web&utm_content=footer)[
Get the app](https://substack.com/app/app-store-redirect?utm_campaign=app-
marketing&utm_content=web-footer-button)

[Substack](https://substack.com) is the home for great writing

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please [turn on
JavaScript](https://enable-javascript.com/) or unblock scripts

