[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_96,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff6c40de1-da3d-423f-bada-f785a91c8996_256x256.png)](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

# [MinerUpdate](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

SubscribeSign in

Share this post

MinerMovements #12

minerupdate.substack.com

Copy link

Twitter

Facebook

Email

# MinerMovements #12

### FTX Launches Hash Rate Futures

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_90,h_90,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff5fd59f3-58d6-4f93-9d5b-285d6896931c_640x640.jpeg)](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

|

[MinerUpdate](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

| May 21, 2020  
---  
  
[Comment](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-12/comments)

[Share](javascript:void\(0\))  
  
Welcome to the fourth epoch of Bitcoin mining.

The transition to miners earning a 6.25 BTC subsidy per block was accompanied
by lower network hash rate, longer block times, and larger transaction fees.

Lower hash rate deployed leads to longer block times and fewer blocks make
block space more valuable by default.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F4b90f764-4659-413e-9296-16c1ec9ef9a8_1093x243.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F4b90f764-4659-413e-9296-16c1ec9ef9a8_1093x243.png)

Many were enthusiastic to see transaction fees as a percentage of total block
reward raise to over 20% post-halving but the state of transaction fees will
not be clear until two difficulty adjustments take place post-halving.

The first took place two days ago with the [difficulty recording a downward
adjustment of 6%.](https://btc.com/stats/diff)

However, this difficulty adjustment also takes into accounts blocks which were
produced from the last adjustment to the halving at block 630,000.

This means that the new difficulty level of 15.14 trillion __ does not fully
adapt to the new level of computing power deployed since the halving.

The next adjustment will be entirely based on the computing power which miners
deploy at the current difficulty level and block subsidy of 6.25 BTC.

The next difficulty adjustment will alter the network to the hash rate
deployed over the next ~2 weeks and it will afterwards become clear whether
users are paying higher transaction fees post halving.

[Share
MinerUpdate](https://minerupdate.substack.com/?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email&utm_content=share&action=share)

* * *

Get the latest insights in the mining world. Join the MinerMovements mailing
list.

 **Subscribe**

* * *

## FTX Launch Hash Rate Futures

The dominant theme in our recent
[MineBlown](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Za0Qt8DIUsQ) event was _the
financialization of mining._

Developments in derivatives to hedge risk, lending facilities, and the
procurement of markets to trade hash rate have long been the subject of
lengthy discussion among miners.

Hash rate and difficulty-based futures contracts are often at the forefront of
this discussion.

Miners are inherently long the value of their hash rate, long the price of
Bitcoin, and short difficulty.

If a miner establishes a 100 PH mining farm at a given difficulty level, any
rise in the difficulty level will result in the mining farm claiming less of
the rewards pool.

To achieve the same percentage of rewards as when they set up, the miner will
either have to upgrade their equipment, deploy more mining rigs, and/or
overclock their machines.

The idea behind difficulty-based contracts is to give miners an option to
hedge their exposure to difficulty.

By longing such a contract, the theory is that the financial gain from longing
the contract will balance out the financial loss which the mining operation
incurs when difficulty increases.

How to design such contracts has been the subject of lengthy discussion.

Last week, [crypto derivatives exchange FTX](https://help.ftx.com/hc/en-
us/articles/360043631671-Hashrate-Futures-Specs) pushed ahead with listing
three hash rate futures contracts.

FTX launched contracts for Q3 2020, Q4 2020, and Q1 2021.

The expiration value of each contract will be based on the average difficulty
of all blocks in a quarter.

The average difficulty of all blocks over the quarter is divided by 1 trillion
to get the value of each contract.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F7385f3c9-e8e8-4a15-80de-
ad4885a0eb05_994x774.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F7385f3c9-e8e8-4a15-80de-
ad4885a0eb05_994x774.png)

The [Q3 contract is currently trading at
17.](https://www.tradingview.com/x/VSTmmNXq/)2 indicating that the market is
anticipating an average difficulty of 17.2 trillion over Q3.

For comparison, the previous difficulty level was 16.1 trillion.

The 14-day moving average of hash rate on the day of the recent difficulty
adjustment was 108EH/s indicating that the previous difficulty level of 16.1
trillion roughly represents a hash rate of 108 EH/s deployed on Bitcoin during
this difficulty phase.

With the Q3 contract trading at an anticipated average difficulty level ~6.8%
higher, the market is currently anticipating that around an additional 7.3
EH/s will be deployed on average throughout Q3.

That would equate to roughly 66 thousand of the latest gen Antminer S19 Pros.

The [Q4 contract](https://www.tradingview.com/x/VgykkMF5/) and [Q1
2021](https://www.tradingview.com/x/8uSe8Sda/) contract are currently trading
at 14.78% and 24% premiums to the 16.1 trillion difficulty level respectively.

This would suggest an additional 15.96 EH/s (~145k Antminer S19 Pros) on
average throughout Q4 and an additional 25.92 EH/s (~234k Antminer S19 Pros)
on average throughout Q1 2021.

### Market Dynamics

While the contracts are designed to give miners a way to decrease their risk
to upside difficulty movements, the instruments have naturally attracted
speculators.

In terms of natural sellers of the contract, ASIC manufacturers may be one.

Assuming they can maintain their respective market shares, ASIC manufacturers
benefit from an increase in difficulty as the fresh rigs arriving on the
market will be supplied by their businesses.

They may be willing to take a short position on difficulty as declining
difficulty could represent falling demand for mining rigs in some cases.

Professionals involved in the ASIC rig supply chain will also hold information
which will have a material impact on the prices of the hash rate futures.

Increased volatility would be expected around rig releases as the market
prices in the impact of new rigs being delivered to miners.

It would be unsurprising to see increased volume and volatility ahead of such
announcements as those in the supply chain may position themselves to
capitalize on information not known to the wider market.

### How Effective Are The Contracts for Hedging?

In terms of miners hedging their exposure to difficulty, the contracts leave a
lot to be desired.

In fact, taking a long difficulty contract could leave miners doubly exposed.

Let’s take the March 12th-13th Bitcoin price crash for example.

In this case, miner margins were extremely squeezed as BTC price dropped
roughly 50%.

Inefficient miners were pushed into the red and huge amounts of hash rate went
offline.

What proceeded was the largest downward difficulty adjustment since ASIC
miners began dominating the Bitcoin network.

In this case, a miner who had hedged their mining operation with a long
difficulty contract would have been negatively impacted by both the drop in
price and the drop in difficulty.

Nonetheless, after lengthy discussion on how to design a difficulty based
contract, it is refreshing to see FTX push ahead with listing a product.

Future iterations and releases by other exchanges can improve upon the design.

 _Thanks to[Juri Bulovic](https://twitter.com/JuricaBulovic) for feedback on
this piece._

* * *

### Miner Insights;

 **[Miners Face Capitulation Post Halving
-](https://www.minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/bitcoin-halving-miner-
capitulation) **With many mining rigs unprofitable even at lower electricity
rates, a large portion of miners have already turned offline or are facing
capitulation. Data highlights that miners are currently selling more BTC than
they’re generating. This suggests that the more inefficient miners are
currently depleting their treasury reserves.

### Quick Miner Movements;

  * [Iran’s Ministry of Industry grants licence to Turkey-based company iMiner](https://cointelegraph.com/news/iranian-authorizes-issue-license-for-6000-rig-crypto-farm) to operate a farm with 6,000 mining rigs. The 6,000 rigs will provide roughly 96,000 Terahashes making iMiner one of the largest miners in Iran.

  * [Square Crypto awards grant to Braiins](https://twitter.com/slush_pool/status/1262748677136805893) who will seek to hire a Rust developer to work on [Stratum v2](https://www.minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/braiins-release-stratum-v2-specifications).

  * Previously unknown Chinese mining pool Lubian.com becomes public and is currently estimated to hold the sixth-largest share of Bitcoin hash rate.

  * [TSMC plans to start building a $12 billion-dollar facility in Arizona in 2021](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-semiconductors-tsmc-idUSKBN22Q38T?taid=5ebdffd7691abf0001ee823c&utm_campaign=trueAnthem:+Trending+Content&utm_medium=trueAnthem&utm_source=twitter) with production expected to start in 2024.

  * [50 BTC mined in 2009](https://www.coindesk.com/50-btc-just-moved-for-first-time-since-2009-but-it-doesnt-look-like-satoshi) were first spent.

### Best of the Rest;

 **[Feather-forks: enforcing a blacklist with sub-50% hash power
-](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=312668.0) **A BitcoinTalk post by
Andrew Miller in 2013 details how a miner may attack the network with less
than 50% hash power. The attack called “feather-fork” details how a miner
refusing to build upon blocks which include certain transactions within a
short timeframe can incentivize other miners to join them in blacklisting
certain types of transactions.

 **[CoinMetrics State of the Network 51 - The Half-Time Show: The State of
Bitcoin Network Security After the Halving
-](https://coinmetrics.substack.com/p/coin-metrics-state-of-the-network-fcf)
**CoinMetrics analyst Karim Helmy estimates the prevalence of Antminer S9 rigs
based on Bitcoin nonce distribution. The analysis shows an increase in the
number of Antminer S9 rigs deployed in the lead-up to the halving which is
likely due to the recent BTC price appreciation. Many miners will be unable to
profitably operate their S9 rigs due to the halving resulting in a significant
amount of hash power remaining offline in the form of unused S9s. This
development changes the state of security of the Bitcoin network.

 **[Luxor Mining: Bitcoin Founder Decides to Reduce Block Reward by 50%
-](https://luxormining.substack.com/p/bitcoin-founder-decides-to-
reduce)**[Luxor Mining](https://www.minerupdate.com/pools/luxor-mining)
presents breakeven electricity prices for various mining rigs post-halving.
They also detail the impact of the halving on mining pool rankings, hash rate,
and geographic distribution of hash rate.

**[VYSYN Ventures Weekly Insights #1 -](https://vysyn.substack.com/p/vysyn-
ventures-weekly-insights-1)** The first newsletter release from VYSYN Capital
details the changes in Bitcoin network activity, mining rig profitability, and
mining pool rankings pre and post halving. Average transaction fees per block
were found to roughly double with block times also longer due to the lower
hash rate deployed.

* * *

###  **About MinerUpdate.com**

[MinerUpdate.com](https://minerupdate.com/) is the leading crypto-mining
publication. Our aim is to bridge the gap between the East to the West in
mining while delivering to our readers the latest insights and developments in
the industry. In October 2019, MinerUpdate hosted
[MinerSummit](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/global-mining-
leaders-summit-2019-recap-acknowledgements), the first English crypto mining
event in China.

###  **Connect With Us**

Did we miss any important mining movements? Let us know by tweeting
[@MinerUpdate](https://twitter.com/minerupdate) or emailing
[hi@minerupdate.com](mailto:hi@minerupdate.com).

[CommentComment](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-12/comments)

[ShareShare](javascript:void\(0\))

![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_66,h_66,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fsubstack.com%2Fimg%2Favatars%2Flogged-
out.png)

## Create your profile

Your nameYour bio Subscribe to the newsletter

0 subscriptions will be displayed on your profile (edit)

Skip for now

Save & Post Comment

## Only paid subscribers can comment on this post

[Already a paid subscriber? **Sign in**](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminermovements-12&for_pub=minerupdate&change_user=false)

#### Check your email

For your security, we need to re-authenticate you.

Click the link we sent to , or [click here to sign
in](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminermovements-12&for_pub=minerupdate&with_password=true).

TopNewCommunity[](javascript:void\(0\))

No posts

# Ready for more?

 **Subscribe**

© 2022 MinerUpdate

[Privacy](https://minerupdate.substack.com/privacy) ∙ [Terms](/tos) ∙
[Collection notice](https://substack.com/ccpa#personal-data-collected)

[ Publish on
Substack](https://substack.com/signup?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=web&utm_content=footer)[
Get the app](https://substack.com/app/app-store-redirect?utm_campaign=app-
marketing&utm_content=web-footer-button)

[Substack](https://substack.com) is the home for great writing

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please [turn on
JavaScript](https://enable-javascript.com/) or unblock scripts

