[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_96,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff6c40de1-da3d-423f-bada-f785a91c8996_256x256.png)](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

# [MinerUpdate](https://minerupdate.substack.com)

SubscribeSign in

Share this post

MinerMovements #2

minerupdate.substack.com

Copy link

Twitter

Facebook

Email

# MinerMovements #2

### CoinShares Research, Poolin Interview, & Canaan's Precarious Position

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_90,h_90,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff5fd59f3-58d6-4f93-9d5b-285d6896931c_640x640.jpeg)](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

|

[MinerUpdate](https://substack.com/profile/5649339-minerupdate)

| Dec 23, 2019  
---  
  
[Comment](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-2/comments)

[Share](javascript:void\(0\))  
  
[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F4200728a-80fc-4494-95a0-0f22e6c16aef_939x704.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F4200728a-80fc-4494-95a0-0f22e6c16aef_939x704.png)

In the second release of our MinerMovements newsletter, the
[MinerUpdate.com](https://minerupdate.com/) team summarize the latest mining
research and news developments while also sharing some memorable quotes from
our interview with [Poolin co-founder Chris
Zhu](https://minerupdate.com/interviews/mining-leader-interview-series-poolin-
coo-chris-zhu).

* * *

Don’t miss the latest developments and insights taking place in the mining
world. Join the MinerMovements mailing list.

 **Subscribe**

* * *

### Mining Pool Rankings

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F9b4acdf6-6082-41b8-ab0d-db0b6615b983_1152x681.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F9b4acdf6-6082-41b8-ab0d-db0b6615b983_1152x681.png)

[Poolin](https://minerupdate.com/pools/poolin), F2Pool, and
[BTC.com](https://minerupdate.com/pools/btc-com) continue to mine the largest
share of Bitcoin blocks. These leading pools had a collective hash rate share
of greater than 47% over the past seven days as illustrated by [BTC.com
data](https://btc.com/stats/pool?pool_mode=week) in the above table. Recently
launched mining pools 1THash and BytePool accounted for over 10% of Bitcoin
hash rate during the past week. [Both 1THash and BytePool are controlled by
Chinese company Valarhash.](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-
insights/chinese-company-valarhash-launches-mining-products-linked-to-9-of-
bitcoin-hash-rate)

### Bitcoin Hash Rate & Difficulty Level

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F83b83f97-ff3e-4c42-a429-6bc601f8f062_1440x273.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F83b83f97-ff3e-4c42-a429-6bc601f8f062_1440x273.png)

The seven-day moving average of Bitcoin hash rate illustrated above by
[bitinfocharts.com](https://bitinfocharts.com/comparison/hashrate-btc-
sma7.html) is currently estimating the Bitcoin hash rate to be 98 EH/s. Raw
values from [bitinfocharts.com](https://bitinfocharts.com/comparison/bitcoin-
hashrate.html) are estimating the higher figure of 111 EH/s. The Bitcoin
difficulty level rose by 0.56% during the week with an average block time of 9
minutes and 57 seconds since the previous adjustment. [Data from BTC.com is
estimating that difficulty will increase by 3.27%](https://btc.com/stats/diff)
at the next adjustment.

### Bitcoin Price -

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F336057b9-2550-41e9-84d2-d367586953b7_989x667.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F336057b9-2550-41e9-84d2-d367586953b7_989x667.png)

After a sharp decline in the first two days of trading last week, Bitcoin
price reached a low of $6,410. It has since significantly rebounded and
currently trades at $7,579 at the time of writing. Whether the market-wide
average [mining cost of production has any impact on where Bitcoin
price](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/what-impact-do-miners-have-
on-the-bitcoin-price-market) finds its bottoms remains a hotly debated topic.

* * *

### Miner Insights-

 **[Majority of Bitcoin Miners Profitable at Current Prices According to
CoinShares Research](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/majority-of-
bitcoin-miners-profitable-at-current-prices-according-to-coinshares-research)
\- **In their latest research report covering the Bitcoin mining industry,
CoinShares estimates the market-wide cost of production per bitcoin mined to
be $6,100 highlighting that most miners are likely profitable at current
prices. CoinShare’s figure for the amount of Bitcoin mining powered by
renewables was roughly the same as their last research report with an
estimated percentage of 73% powered by renewables.

 **[Chinese Company Valarhash linked to 9% of Bitcoin Hash
Rate](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/chinese-company-valarhash-
launches-mining-products-linked-to-9-of-bitcoin-hash-rate) \- **At an event in
Chengdu on December 9th, Chinese company Valarhash launched four Bitcoin
mining products revealing a link to over 9% of the total Bitcoin hash rate.
Bitcoin mining pools BytePool and 1THash were among the products launched.

### Mining Leader Interview Series-

We caught up with **[Poolin co-founder and COO Chris
Zhu](https://minerupdate.com/interviews/mining-leader-interview-series-poolin-
coo-chris-zhu)** in Beijing last month. In what was an extremely interesting
conversation, Chris detailed what Poolin did to rise to the top of the Bitcoin
mining pool rankings while also outlining their business strategy moving into
2020. Chris also shared with us some interesting insights into the wider
mining environment and his opinion on other matters including Bitcoin Cash and
China’s work with blockchain technology. Here are some salient quotes from our
conversation.

**On the upcoming halving and why it may act as a self-fulfilling prophecy in
the market-**

> My personal opinion is the halving fundamentally does not affect the price
> of bitcoin. But everybody thinks the event will make bitcoin price go up. So
> the price must go up.

 **On the price prospects of Bitcoin Cash -**

> I can’t comment on how the network will perform in the long-term as I know
> nothing about the BCH development community. But in terms of price, I
> believe BCH will continue lower and lower in terms of its BTC value. It’s a
> one-way trip.

 **On mining in China moving into 2020 -**

> When we mention mainland China, the hash rate dominance will definitely be
> lower. And it will continue to go lower and lower. Because many Chinese
> miners are moving their mining rigs overseas.

You can read the [full Poolin interview
here](https://minerupdate.com/interviews/mining-leader-interview-series-
poolin-coo-chris-zhu).

###  **Quick Miner Movements -**

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F0ad5b756-c096-46eb-83f1-03b0849719b6_991x665.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F0ad5b756-c096-46eb-83f1-03b0849719b6_991x665.png)

  *  **[Canaan is in a precarious position](https://www.coindesk.com/canaans-post-ipo-stock-plunge-reveals-sales-slump-price-war-with-bitmain?)**[.](https://www.coindesk.com/canaans-post-ipo-stock-plunge-reveals-sales-slump-price-war-with-bitmain?) After raising $100 million, a measly amount when it comes to Bitcoin ASIC manufacturing, [Canaan](https://minerupdate.com/hardware/canaan)’s next hardware release expected in February has poorer performance than mining rig models which [Bitmain](https://minerupdate.com/hardware/bitmain) currently has on the market. The February batch of Avalon A11 mining rigs has a hash rate of 68 TH/s with a power efficiency of 47 J/TH while Bitmain’s Antminer S17+ has a hash rate of 73 TH/s and power efficiency of 40 J/TH. Both are similarly priced which raises the question of why any purchaser would wait until February for hardware which is less powerful and less efficient than hardware which they can purchase now. Canaan’s share price has been reflecting their vulnerable position in the market. The price declined 8.27% during trading last week and has depreciated ~62% since their [IPO](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/canaan-ipo-confirmed-400-million-november-nasdaq-listing-in-line).

  *  **Bitcoin mining pool[NovaBlock](https://minerupdate.com/pools/nova-block) announced partnerships** with financial services firm Secure Digital Markets and immersion cooling company Immersion Systems during the week. 

  * **[Financial services firm GSR announced a partnership with Interhash](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/press-release-gsr-partners-with-interhash-to-create-risk-management-solutions-for-bitcoin-miners).** Interhash is a strategic partner of Canaan and the two firms have combined forces to offer a suite of risk management products to miners.

### Best of the Rest-

 **[Whats Halvening #3](http://whatshalvening.btc.libsynpro.com/ep-3-chase-
blackmon-on-immersion-cooling-as-an-alternative-to-air-cooled-mines) -** Every
edge matters in the intensely competitive world of Bitcoin mining. In the race
to increase hash power and reduce costs, immersion cooling is proving to be a
promising innovation. In the latest What’s Halvening podcast, Cassie Clifton
of Bitcoin Magazine is joined by Immersion Systems CTO Chase Blackmon. Their
conversation covers some of the technicalities of how immersion cooling works
while also detailing the incentives for miners in both warm and cool climates
to adopt such infrastructure.

 **[Crusoe Energy Plans 70 Bitcoin Mining Data Centres for
2020](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-12-06/why-bitcoin-mining-
is-being-touted-as-a-solution-to-gas-flaring) -** After recently raising $70
million in financing, Denver-based Crusoe Energy is planning the installation
of seventy small Bitcoin mining data centres in 2020 with a total estimated
power draw of 1 MW. Crusoe Energy specializes in installing Bitcoin mining
data centres at shale drilling sites where the sites are powered by excess gas
production which otherwise would be wasted through flaring.

 **[MicroBT Founder Arrested for Alleged
Embezzlement](https://www.coindesk.com/bitmain-rival-microbts-founder-
arrested-in-china-for-alleged-embezzlement) -** Wolfie Zhao of CoinDesk
updates us on the arrest of [MicroBT founder Zuoxing
Yang](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-insights/microbt-founder-zuoxing-
yang-detained-bitmain-responsible). Reports have surfaced that the arrest is
related to the alleged embezzlement of the equivalent of $15,000 USD.

 **[Bitmain Subsidiary has ~$670k in Assets
Frozen](https://www.coindesk.com/bitmains-miner-manufacturing-subsidiary-
had-680k-in-assets-frozen-in-a-contract-dispute) -** Zhao further notifies us
of a Bitmain subsidiary, Shenzhen Century Cloud Core, having 4.7 million RMB
in assets frozen by the order of Shenzhen Bao’An District Court. The
plaintiff, Dongguan Yongjiang Electronics, is a Shenzhen-based electronics
components provider who is currently in a trade contract dispute with the
Bitmain subsidiary.

 **[Ebang sues publicly-listed Chinese company
Wholeasy](https://www.coindesk.com/lawsuit-shows-how-a-public-firms-80m-bet-
on-bitcoin-miners-went-terribly-wrong) -** Zhao explains another development
unravelling in China with [Ebang](https://minerupdate.com/hardware/ebang)
suing publicly-listed Chinese company Wholeasy for $15 million in unpaid funds
for the purchase of 100,000 Ebang 9+ mining rigs in March 2018. While the case
is ongoing, Zhao’s article details how an app developer owned by Wholeasy got
exposure to Bitcoin mining despite uncertain Chinese policy.

* * *

###  **About MinerUpdate.com**

[MinerUpdate.com](https://minerupdate.com/) is the leading crypto-mining
publication. Our aim is to bridge the gap between the East to the West in
mining while delivering to our readers the latest insights and developments in
the industry. Our publication is ad-free, bias-free, with no conflict of
interest when it comes to delivering high-quality content. In October 2019,
MinerUpdate hosted [MinerSummit](https://minerupdate.com/news/miner-
insights/global-mining-leaders-summit-2019-recap-acknowledgements), the first
English crypto mining event in China.

* * *

###  **Connect With Us**

Did we miss any important mining movements? Let us know by tweeting
[@MinerUpdate](https://twitter.com/minerupdate) or emailing
hi@minerupdate.com.

**Subscribe**

[
CommentComment](https://minerupdate.substack.com/p/minermovements-2/comments)

[ShareShare](javascript:void\(0\))

![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_66,h_66,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fsubstack.com%2Fimg%2Favatars%2Flogged-
out.png)

## Create your profile

Your nameYour bio Subscribe to the newsletter

0 subscriptions will be displayed on your profile (edit)

Skip for now

Save & Post Comment

## Only paid subscribers can comment on this post

[Already a paid subscriber? **Sign in**](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminermovements-2&for_pub=minerupdate&change_user=false)

#### Check your email

For your security, we need to re-authenticate you.

Click the link we sent to , or [click here to sign
in](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fminermovements-2&for_pub=minerupdate&with_password=true).

TopNewCommunity[](javascript:void\(0\))

No posts

# Ready for more?

 **Subscribe**

© 2022 MinerUpdate

[Privacy](https://minerupdate.substack.com/privacy) ∙ [Terms](/tos) ∙
[Collection notice](https://substack.com/ccpa#personal-data-collected)

[ Publish on
Substack](https://substack.com/signup?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=web&utm_content=footer)[
Get the app](https://substack.com/app/app-store-redirect?utm_campaign=app-
marketing&utm_content=web-footer-button)

[Substack](https://substack.com) is the home for great writing

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please [turn on
JavaScript](https://enable-javascript.com/) or unblock scripts

