For better experience, please enable JavaScript.

[Multicoin Capital](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * Media
  * More
  * [Contact](/contact/)

![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

  * [English](/2018/02/23/models-scaling-trustless-computation/)
  * [中文](/zh/2018/02/23/models-scaling-trustless-computation/)
  * [한국어](/ko/2018/02/23/models-scaling-trustless-computation/)
  * 日本語

![](data:image/png;base64,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)

### Search posts

dark mode

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

  * [Archives](https://github.com/multicoincapital/crypto-archives)
  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)

[Writing](/blog/category/blog/)

## Models for Scaling Trustless Computation

By [Kyle Samani](/about#225b2112-7be1-5fc9-8755-db7e245ba5a5)

February 23, 2018 | 15 Minute Read

![Copy URL to clipboard
button](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

Each of the major smart contract platforms is making a unique set of trade-
offs. These trade-offs are not simply the presence or absence of specific
features, but rather represent fundamentally different views of what trustless
computation means.

This essay aims to provide a coherent framework through which one can
understand these trade-offs and how they impact some of the predominant
narratives in crypto such as digital gold, programmable money, censorship
resistance, and permissionless-ness. Some definitions:

Censorship resistance – complete freedom of expression. In more technical
terms, the ability to commit any arbitrary record to the blockchain.

Permissionless-ness – the ability to access the network and verify the
integrity of the chain without asking a 3rd party for permission.

I will not explore layer 2 scaling solutions such as Lightning, Raiden, and
[Plasma](https://plasma.io/ "plasma").

But first, we need to establish context for the term “trustless.” Nick Szabo
[frames](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/02/money-blockchains-and-
social-scalability.html "money blockchains") trustlessness as an inverse
function of technical efficiency. Basically, the less efficient the computer,
the more difficult it is to manipulate. The more difficult it is to
manipulate, the more you can trust it, therefore making it trustless.

In other words, to paraphrase Szabo, blockchains trade technical efficiency
for social scalability.

The ultimate manifestation of crypto is not just a trustless database (or
blockchain) in which everyone agrees on its current state—it’s trustless
general purpose computation, which is a superset of a database. This can be a
little bit challenging to grasp. Blockchains enable everyone on the planet to
come to consensus about the state of the world. Trustless general purpose
computation is a step beyond that. It’s the ability to not just know the state
of the world but to prove that a specific computation was run correctly.

Although Bitcoin is technically programmable—enabling trustless general
purpose computation through its Script language—in practice Bitcoin is just a
trustless database. Although there are some efforts to make Bitcoin more
expressive (such as
[MAST](https://www.google.com/search?q=mast+bitcoin&oq=mast+bitcoin&aqs=chrome..69i57.1834j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8
"MAST"),
[taproot](https://www.google.com/search?q=taproot+bitcoin&oq=taproot+bitcoin&aqs=chrome.0.0j69i57j69i60.2237j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8
"taproot"), [scriptless
scripts](https://www.google.com/search?q=scriptless+scripts+bitcoin&oq=scriptless+scripts+bitcoin&aqs=chrome..69i57.3564j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8
"scriptless scripts"), and [RSK](https://www.rsk.co/ "rootstock")) none of
these are in production today. To put it bluntly, developers have left Bitcoin
for greener pastures.

Ethereum provided the first accessible platform on which developers could run
any arbitrary computation trustlessly. Today, Ethereum owns the vast majority
of the developer mindshare in crypto.

Many have called Ethereum a [world
computer](https://www.google.com/search?q=ethereum+world+computer&oq=ethereum+world+computer&aqs=chrome..69i57j0j69i60l4.2415j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8
"world computer"). While this is technically true, in practice it’s not
because of two related factors: throughput and cost. Running a computation on
Ethereum is on the order of [100,000,000x](https://hackernoon.com/ether-
purchase-power-df40a38c5a2f "ether purchase power") more expensive than
running the same computation on Amazon Web Services (AWS).

 **The Scalability Trilemma**

The challenge of scaling trustless computation can be thought of as a
trilemma. The scalability trilemma posits that blockchains in which every node
processes every computation and in which every node comes to consensus about
the order of those computations can have two of three properties: safety,
scalability, and decentralization of block production (DBP).

  * DBP can be quantified as the number of block producers.
  * Scalability can be quantified as the number of transactions per unit of time that the system can process.
  * Safety can be quantified as the cost of mounting a Byzantine attack that affects liveness or [transaction ordering](https://blog.keep.network/miners-arent-your-friends-cde9b6e0e9ac "transaction ordering"). Note that safety does not refer to the integrity of cryptographic signatures, or the ability of a 3rd party to derive a set of private keys from public keys.

What causes a system to achieve one set of trade-offs vs another? A
combination of consensus scheme and system architecture. The remainder of this
essay will explore these concepts, and lastly, loop in some interesting work
in off-chain computation.

Each of the systems below makes a different set of trade-offs in pursuit of
scalable trustless computation. Throughout this essay, I’ll refer to each leg
of the triangle using these numbers:

![Trilemma
1](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/4r9DfRq9l34quppVHdjxwo/d3b180ba0aedfd29736599c32c543c06/Trilemma_1.png)

 **A Fourth Dimension: Time To Finality (AKA Latency)**

Although not explicitly part of the scalability trilemma, there’s a fourth
dimension to consider in scaling systems for trustless computation: time to
finality (TTF), which directly impacts latency. Some systems never guarantee
finality, but rather probabilistically approach finality (e.g. Bitcoin).
Others offer a finality guarantee after some period of time. Finality is
important not only to avoid double-spend attacks, but also because finality
guarantees are necessary to enable cross-chain communications. The slower the
TTF, the higher the latency in cross-chain communications.

There’s not a visually clean way to represent TTF on a two-dimensional
triangle. As such, I’ll use dark background colors to indicate fast TTF and
light background colors to represent slower TTF.

 **Leg 1: Permissionless Proof-of-Work (Bitcoin, Ethereum 1.0, others)**

Prior to Bitcoin, all digital cash systems suffered from the same fundamental
flaw: users had to trust a 3rd party to administer the system. This 3rd party
could censor transactions. Designing a system in which anyone could verify the
integrity of the chain and in which no single 3rd party could censor
transactions was the primary design goal of Bitcoin. Proof-of-work (PoW)
consensus made a censorship-resistant, permissionless ledger possible.

The downside of optimizing so strongly in favor of censorship resistance is
that modern PoW systems don’t scale without centralizing block production.
This fundamental tradeoff ultimately resulted in the Bitcoin Cash fork, which,
relative to Bitcoin, will centralize block production (though there are
debates about this practice).

Of the consensus models presented in this essay, PoW is the most
permissionless. Literally anyone with a computer and an Internet connection
can begin validating transactions and mining. This theoretically enables
maximal DBP.

In practice, all permissionless PoW systems centralize block production. We
know this empirically. Mining for all major PoW-based blockchains centralizes
due to economies of scale in mining operations. Today, no more than 20
organizations/pools control the vast majority of mining power in both the
[Bitcoin](https://coin.dance/blocks "bitcoin blocks") and
[Ethereum](https://etherscan.io/stat/miner?range=7&blocktype=blocks "ethereum
miners") blockchains. Given our admittedly limited history, it seems likely
this centralization of block production will always occur for both ASIC and
GPU-based mining algorithms.

PoW systems suffer from slow TTF. They do not, by design, ever guarantee
finality. Instead, as new blocks are added to PoW-based chains, older
transactions become exponentially more likely to be final. This is why many
don’t consider Bitcoin transactions “final” until there have been six
additional blocks confirming the transaction. Given 10-minute blocks, it can
take an hour or even longer to finalize a Bitcoin transaction. At that point,
the probability of a chain reorganization is close enough to 0 to consider the
transaction final.

In practice, because of the economies of scale of PoW mining, PoW chains fall
in the lower right-hand corner of the triangle:

![trilemma
2](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/3hDK2BO9NsR9jkv0MbKe2I/e454333f7488b2110a98eb9f26723935/trilemma_2.png)

 **Braided PoW (Kadena)**

Kadena is the only system I’m aware of that’s attempting to solve the
scalability trilemma using a PoW scheme. Kadena accomplishes this by creating
a “braid” of chains that it calls Chainweb. In Chainweb, each chain must, in
addition to validating transactions in its own chain, validate block headers
of some number of pre-specified chains in order to produce a new block.

To relay messages and value across chains, users need to submit Merkle proofs
asserting the state of one chain to other chains in the Chainweb. Because not
all chains are directly connected, users may have to “hop” a few times to
relay a message from one chain to another.

At first glance, this looks like Ethereum’s proposal for sharding (more on
that below). However, whereas Ethereum’s sharding implementation separates
transaction collation and validation into spoke chains and a single hub chain
respectively, Kadena doesn’t unbundle transaction verification and consensus.
In Chainweb, every chain maintains its own consensus. Kadena presents a
fundamentally unique approach.

Kadena [visualizes](http://kadena.io/docs/chainweb_calculations_v7.pdf "kadena
docs") ChainWeb as follows:

![kadena
web](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/mdFGXPaA1aKGloQH5qY15/b2d914e3ab758ea16fe3c0c20f923a1b/kadena_web.png)

One of unique traits of ChainWeb is that scaling the system explicitly
increases security. Why? Because it becomes harder to mount 51% attacks across
an increasing number of chains, each of which references blocks from every
other chain. In this model, undoing a transaction on one chain requires
undoing transactions on every other chain in the system. Given how naturally
intertwined the chains are, this becomes exponentially more difficult as the
number of chains grows. This stands in contrast to blockchains on leg 3 of the
triangle, in which the safety of the system in aggregate doesn’t substantially
increase as the number of chains grows.

This design basically solves the scalability trilemma. But there is one major
trade off: TTF and cross-chain latency.

Individual chains could be many hops from one another. Kadena aims to offer <1
minute TTF in a PoW scheme. Sending messages across the entire Chainweb will
take a few hops, requiring a few minutes.

Despite this limitation, Kadena presents a real solution to solving the
scalability trilemma that’s built on a proven consensus model: PoW. Although
braiding adds a new dynamics to the system as a whole, each chain is a PoW
chain. PoW has undergone much more scrutiny than proof-of-stake (PoS). It
takes years to demonstrate the safety of a consensus scheme in the real world.
Because of this, there is real value and opportunity for Kadena in building a
scalable system on PoW consensus.

On the triangle, Kadena falls here:

![trilemma
3](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/6NMEBWPHtiRx7Ql424jbr4/f5a5592d65e3ffd1039f184df503e10d/trilemma_3.png)

 **Proof-of-Stake**

The schemes presented above were PoW-based. The schemes below are PoS schemes.

In practice, all PoS systems centralize block production relative to purely
permissionless PoW schemes by design. This is due to the intrinsic trade-off
between number of block producers and throughput. (This excellent
[essay](https://medium.com/@VitalikButerin/parametrizing-casper-the-
decentralization-finality-time-overhead-tradeoff-3f2011672735 "parameterizing
casper") by Vitalik Buterin details the tradeoffs.)

However, this doesn’t mean that all PoS schemes centralize block production
equally. As we’ll see, there’s a wide range of DBP that’s achievable using PoS
schemes.

PoS schemes are far less battle-tested than PoW schemes in real-world
settings. For example, the first PoS implementation, Peercoin, faced [nothing-
at-
stake](https://www.google.com/search?q=peercoin+nothing+at+stake&oq=peercoin+nothing+at+stake&aqs=chrome..69i57.3480j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8
"nothing at stake") attacks, among others. As such, PoS schemes should be
considered fundamentally riskier.

 **Leg 2: Centralizing Block Production (EOS, Cardano, NEO, others)**

Delegated proof-of-stake (DPoS) schemes embrace centralization by recognizing
that PoW schemes naturally centralize due to economies of scale in mining.
Given this practical reality, [Dan
Larimer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daniel_Larimer "dan larimer") invented
DPoS, which embraces the fact that blockchains naturally centralize anyways,
and uses that to achieve scalability.

For example, EOS, Larimer’s most recent effort, publicly boasts that the
system will only have 21 block producers at a time. It’s expected that, in
time, it will only be possible to run an EOS node in a datacenter.

By limiting the number of block producers, it can be assumed that each block
producer has more resources. Additionally, reducing the number of block
producers reduces latency in Byzantine Fault Tolerant (BFT) algorithms, which
typically require n^2 messages to achieve consensus. Reducing DBP explicitly
increases scalability

DPoS based chains not only offer scalability but fast TTF, and therefore, low
latency. EOS specifically is aiming for .5-second block times, which is simply
not feasible in other consensus schemes. This is a major advantage for DPoS
systems. Many applications require low latency and high throughput.

Take, for example, decentralized exchanges. This is becoming painfully obvious
as the [0x ecosystem](https://0xproject.com/ "0x project") matures on
Ethereum. One of the largest problems in 0x today is the rapidly growing
number of order collisions, which are a direct result of slow block times and
high latency in Ethereum. The 0x team has [proposed
solutions](https://blog.0xproject.com/front-running-griefing-and-the-perils-
of-virtual-settlement-part-2-921b00109e21 "greifing"). It’s unclear how
effective these will be given the intrinsic limits of the underlying Ethereum
blockchain. This wouldn’t be a problem at all given the fast blocks, high
throughput, and low latency that DPoS systems offer.

Overall, a bet on DPoS is a bet on a few things:

  1. There are certain applications that require high throughput and low latency on a neutral database.
  2. Not all distributed systems need to be that distributed so as to able to withstand full-frontal government assault.

On the triangle, DPoS systems will cluster along the bottom of the triangle.
Note that, relative to the prior two triangles, which illustrated systems with
slow TTF, DPoS systems offer fast TTF and are therefore presented using a
darker background color.

![trilemma4](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/6azDAv0g0vaI1DdtAP24KI/80b39fe0282b08fdff456c9e2a3fc21a/trilemma4.png)

 **Leg 3: A Universe Of Many Chains (Cosmos, AION, ICON, Ark)**

The Cosmos, AION, ICON, and Ark teams believe that there will be hundreds of
thousands or even millions of chains. Rather than monolithic chains, such as a
Ethereum or EOS, the teams building systems on leg 3 of the triangle believe
that different applications should not necessarily share a single set of
validators. Instead, they should have unique validator sets.

In the context of the scalability trilemma, each chain on systems in leg 3
comprise less value. In both PoW and PoS schemes, safety increases with value.
However, in exchange for that additional risk, each chain gains sovereignty
(which may not be necessary or even valuable), scalability, and fast TTF.

Why is sovereignty valuable? This is easiest way to understand is to walk
through some examples. As countries adopt chains for administrative purposes,
they will want their own validator sets that enforce their social values and
not those of some other country or a global commune. Ethereum and Ethereum
Classic, for example, should not share validators.

The obvious counter to the case for sovereignty is Ethereum itself. In 2013,
Vitalik set out to build Ethereum because he recognized that every app
developer in crypto was dealing with the same challenges around mining and
consensus. He recognized the opportunity to abstract all of that complexity so
that developers can focus on the application layer.

There are some interesting parallels to draw in the history of cloud
computing. In the early 2000s, many web-hosts hosted multiple websites on a
single server. Whenever one site received too much traffic, the server would
crash, taking down other websites that were hosted on the same server.

In many ways, Ethereum is like the early web-hosts. It simply bundled too many
things together, creating a system that in aggregate was unstable. When one
application broke the system, it broke the system for everyone.

The solution to the web-hosting problem was virtual machines (VM). By
isolating every application into a separate VM, a single server could run
multiple applications, maximizing hardware utilization and driving down cost
while still preserving integrity. In the event of an influx of traffic, a
single VM would crash, rather than all the VMs on the server. In time, VMs
became portable across physical servers, increasing redundancy and security
even further. Combined with systems enabling massive horizontal scalability,
VMs became one of the key components of cloud computing. More recently, Docker
containers have come to replace VMs, but Docker containers don’t fundamentally
change this analogy.

If distributed apps must live on separate chains for the reasons outlined
above, then there will be a great opportunity for the systems on leg 3 of the
triangle.

To support this future, systems on leg 3 need to make it trivially easy to
spin up new chains, and for chains to interoperate with one another. Cosmos is
making this vision a reality with
[Ethermint](https://github.com/tendermint/ethermint "Ethermint"). Ethermint is
a 100% open and free. It’s a blank-slate template chain that runs the Ethereum
Virtual Machine (EVM) on top of Tendermint, the semi-centralized, high
throughput, low TTF consensus algorithm pioneered by the Cosmos team. By
making it trivially easy for developers to spin up new chains, Cosmos hopes
that developers will do just that. AION, ICON, and Ark share the same general
vision and are working to provide template-ized ways for developers to spin up
chains quickly and easily. (Note that although
[Wanchain](https://wanchain.org/ "wanchain") is often listed as a
“interoperable chain” solution, it is substantially different than everything
else in this section and does not provide the same functionality.)

Note that these systems offer fast TTF. That’s because each chain is
relatively centralized, allowing for low latency. Despite each chain being
relatively centralized, the system in aggregate is rather decentralized
because there are so many chains with independent validator sets, each of
which may leverage novel consensus mechanisms.

On the triangle, vision of many smaller, interoperable chains can be
visualized as follows:

![trilemma
5](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/cdxZEiMglLij5GMzAA1Gf/b092735d80ad66c9397de5e6971dce7d/trilemma_5.png)

 **Sharding (Ethereum 2.0, Polkadot)**

Vitalik and Gavin Wood have openly discussed sharding Ethereum for years (see
[here](https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/Sharding-FAQ "Sharding") and
[here](https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/Chain-Fibers-Redux "Chain
fibers")).

Each shard is basically a unique chain. The difference between a shard in
Ethereum and an independent chain in the Cosmos ecosystem is that in Cosmos,
each chain must manage its own consensus (and therefore safety), whereas
Ethereum shards do not. In sharding, consensus and therefore safety are pooled
across all shards and managed by a Validator Manager Contract in a master
shard. In most cases, pooled safety should be better than many chains with
lower safety.

No one has put a sharded blockchain into production—yet (Zilliqa claims to;
however, their implementation is not full state-sharding).

Sharding solves the scalability trilemma, albeit at the expense of chain
sovereignty. Additionally, cross-shard communications are subject to latency.
Latency is primarily a function of the consensus algorithm per shard.

Ethereum is going to use [Casper](https://medium.com/@jonchoi/ethereum-
casper-101-7a851a4f1eb0 "Casper") to finalize each shard. Although the
specific [parameters](https://medium.com/@VitalikButerin/parametrizing-casper-
the-decentralization-finality-time-overhead-tradeoff-3f2011672735
"parameterizing") are not yet set, it seems likely that Casper will offer TTF
measured in minutes, making sharded Ethereum a high-latency system.

Using a novel consensus algorithm called threshold relay, Dfinity and Algorand
aim to offer DBP, safety, more scalability than Ethereum within a single shard
(though far less than the scalability offered by DPoS), and fast TTF. If
threshold relay works in practice as well it has in test environments, we can
expect to see Dfinity and Alogrand shard their chains and leverage the fast
TTF and low latency to provide for efficient cross-shard communications.

Polkadot will launch as a sharded network that uses a TBA BFT consensus
algorithm that offers fast finality at the expense of DBP (with a similar set
of trade-offs as Tendermint). However, Polkadot is likely to launch a sharded
network before Ethereum or Dfinity. Unlike Ethereum and Dfinity, Polkadot does
not require shards to use a particular state machine, such as the EVM or
WebAssembly (WASM). Rather, Polkadot allows each chain to define its own state
machine. This would allow protocols such as [Stellar](https://www.stellar.org/
"stellar"), which focus on issuing arbitrary digital assets without any smart
contract functionality, or Zcash, which requires a highly optimized state-
machine to process SNARK proofs, to move its self-contained consensus systems
onto Polkadot.

To summarize the above:

![Screen Shot 2019-04-23 at 3.26.03
PM](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/3WmBQkKHAQmwfDQcvaabnW/99764be382add38ba9d39e5d998a7304/Screen_Shot_2019-04-23_at_3.26.03_PM.png)

Full state sharding is an unsolved computer science problem. It may be that no
one ever pulls it off at scale in a production environment. However, if it’s
possible, it presents perhaps the best path to solving the scalability
trilemma while offering fast TTF and low latency.

On the triangle, sharded PoS can be visualized here:

![trilemma
6](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/5ySIydrl5JTb2KwSeERX6I/7ae09a6bbe0b7ea14eafae71e5bb7e25/trilemma_6.png)

 **Verifiable Off-Chain Computation**

What if, instead of introducing inefficiency to achieve trustlessness, a user
just asks a single computer to perform a computation, trustlessly? Is there a
way to prove that the computation was performed correctly without asking
dozens or hundreds of computers to perform the same computation? Can we
achieve some guarantee of correctness without the massive technical
inefficiency that’s intrinsic to blockchains?

[Truebit](https://truebit.io/ "truebit") is attempting to fulfill this vision
through a prover-verifier game. This will be accomplished through an
interactive, prover-response protocol. In the expected case of an unchallenged
result, each computation is completed locally with no overhead, a single
solver and a handful of verifiers. In the unlikely event of a challenge, both
the solver and verifier will need to re-run a computationally intense WASM-
based virtual machine to determine the malicious actor.

The interactive verification protocol combines the transparency, security, and
immutability of the base chain with the efficiency of offchain compute. As
Truebit takes place in interactive rounds, it is also probabilistic, so it
will not be effective in environments that require low TTF. Truebit runs on
the first “unanimous” consensus mechanism, which requires a minimum of one
rational verifier for each task to guarantee safety.

In time, we may see Truebit or a competitor use SNARKs and STARKs to verify
the accuracy of any arbitrary computation using non-interactive proofs instead
of interactive proofs. If this is possible, Truebit will decrease TTF,
increasing the design space for trustless offchain computation. However,
SNARKs and STARKs as general purpose, zero-knowledge proofs of arbitrary
computation are still highly speculative, unproven, technically inefficient,
and may ultimately fail to fulfill their potential.

 **Open Source, Copying, and Politics**

On a long enough time scale, the dominant chains are likely to incorporate the
best technologies from smaller, less dominant chains. For example, Ethereum is
[adopting](https://blog.z.cash/ethereum-snarks/ "snarks") zkSNARKs, the
primary technology enabling private transactions in Zcash. Moreover, Vitalik
has stated that he wants to move Ethereum to WASM, which will be adopted by
EOS and Dfinity before Ethereum. Ethereum maximalists offer Plasma as a
solution to all of Ethereum’s deficiencies because it allows for alternative
consensus algorithms and state machines within the Ethereum ecosystem.

Given this and the [Smart Contract Network Effect
Fallacy](https://multicoin.capital/smart-contract-network-effect-fallacy/
"smart contract network effect fallacy"), how will chains differentiate?

Politics. Ideologies. Beliefs.

Assuming that no one ever solves the scalability trilemma without any
compromises, then different people and businesses will require unique chains
that are most suited for the task at hand.

Eventually, the media will come to frame this as a religious debate.
Blockchains will become like religions because their believers are
missionaries, motivated to spread their gospel and convert others.

Will users choose the chain that’s maximally decentralized and therefore
maximally censorship-resistant, even at the expenses of performance and higher
network fees? Or will they accept lower thresholds for censorship resistance?
If so, where’s that line?

 **Censorship-Resistant Digital Gold**

Through the framework presented in this essay, we can make an objective
assessment on how and why digital gold and programmable money are likely to be
independent for the foreseeable future.

The Bitcoin core team has made it a priority to maximize DBP and transaction
verification at all costs, even at the expense of scalability and other forms
of utility. By making Bitcoin highly inefficient, it will be more resilient.
There appears to be no limit to which the Bitcoin core team will trade
technical efficiency for social scalability.

You can argue that, even given their beliefs, the Bitcoin core team is
misguided. For example, PoS advocates argue that PoS is more secure than PoW
because if a malevolent attacker is identified, she can be immediately
slashed. This stands in contrast to PoW schemes, in which a malevolent party
can continue to attack the network in perpetuity.

We have no idea if, in the long run, PoS schemes will be more resistant to
government assault than PoW schemes. There are good arguments to be made both
ways. However, we do know that PoW is battle-tested. Given that Bitcoin core’s
singular priority is maximal censorship resistance, the Bitcoin core
developers are making the right decision given what we know empirically.

There are valid arguments that the Bitcoin core view is too extreme, that
Bitcoin sacrifices real utility for superfluous censorship resistance, and
that the lack of utility will ultimately cause Bitcoin to fall into
irrelevance.

The question at hand is, how much DBP is enough DBP? If you assume that the
design constraint is not “withstand full-frontal, coordinated assault by the
U.S., Chinese, and Russian governments” but some lower bar, then the design
space for trustless computation broadens.

In the ‘90s, many thought that the Internet would be the ultimate
democratizing force that would dismantle legacy media companies and oppressive
governments by connecting people in ways that were never before possible. As
it turns out, for the most part, big companies and governments leveraged the
Internet to aggregate power and control.

Since all of the systems for trustless computation are permissionless, that
means governments can leverage them to their advantage. Perhaps, rather than
full-frontal assault, we’ll see governments adopt crypto in novel and
unforeseen ways that strengthen their grip on society rather than loosen it.

 **Heterogenous Trustless Computation**

For the foreseeable future, all of the models for scaling trustless
computation described above will coexist and blossom as the crypto ecosystem
undergoes a Cambrian Explosion of experimentation.

There will not be a clear, linear path between here and some steady future
state. Rather, things are about to become more heterogeneous and intertwined
before they become more homogenous.

For example: Developers may build on Polkadot, only to find that an individual
Polkadot relay chain reaches limits. That Polkadot relay chain may connect to
other Polkadot relay chains, which may in turn connect to EOS, Ethereum, and
Kadena chains through the Cosmos Hub. Each of those chains may in turn be
sharded. Various Ethereum shards may contain Plasma chains secured using DPoS
and proof of authority (PoA) consensus.

Contracts in each of these major systems will be able to call Truebit for off-
chain computation, making everything above even less clear. How much work will
be able to be off-loaded to Truebit, and how will that integrate intra and
inter-chains?

It’s also not clear where and how value will accrue across these systems.
There’s a case to be made that interoperability chains such as Cosmos will not
accrue that much value (perhaps billions vs trillions) if Cosmos’s ATOM tokens
don’t become [Menger Goods](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theory_of_imputation
"Menger goods"). Polkadot’s DOT tokens face the same risk.

In time, I expect to see substantial, though not complete convergence. Given
the fundamental value of sovereignty for some chains (e.g. those controlled by
governments), I expect systems like Cosmos will always have a place, even if
another chain is the biggest winner.

Nothing has been decided, and everything is up for grabs.

Thanks to Trent McConaghy (Ocean); Peter Czaban (Web3/Polkadot), Jesse Walden
(a16z); Will Martino (Kadena), Matt Luongo (Keep), James Prestwich (Integral),
Robbie Bent (Truebit), and Zaki Manian (Cosmos) for their input on this essay.

*Note: After writing a first draft of this essay, I discovered that Trent McConaghy [proposed](https://blog.bigchaindb.com/the-dcs-triangle-5ce0e9e0f1dc "Trent's framework") a similar framework with a different naming scheme a full 20 months before me. Special thanks to Trent for providing input on this essay.

Disclosure: Multicoin Capital is long Bitcoin, Ether, Kadena, and EOS.*

+ Show More

[Read NextPodcast: Kyle and Tushar on Epicenter](/2018/02/21/podcast-kyle-
tushar-epicenter/)

![Kyle
Samani](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/4OF6ywwNnbQLmD5qsIQ9kF/29aa033b59f51bc65fff3729e6948fe4/kyle_samani__2_.jpg)

By [Kyle Samani](/about#225b2112-7be1-5fc9-8755-db7e245ba5a5)

[@kylesamani](https://twitter.com/KyleSamani)

More Tags

[Writing](/blog/category/blog/)[Featured](/blog/category/featured/)[Podcasts](/podcasts/)[Videos](/videos/)

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER FOR THE BEST INSIGHTS IN CRYPTO

[![phoenix](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/72L5sEuJXOA7PvWBZM540E/27909d6ff5cda80158665ca43514b11c/phoenix_logo_white.svg)Subscribe](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)

* * *

  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)

  * [Podcasts](/podcasts/)
  * [Videos](/videos/)
  * [Subscribe](https://multicoin.capital/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

### GET IN TOUCH

We’re always looking for compelling ideas, business, and partnership
opportunities. We also enjoy reading your feedback. If you’re submitting a
business proposal, please include a clear description and any resources that
could help us evaluate your opportunity.

[hello@multicoin.capital](mailto:hello@multicoin.capital)

* * *

![Multicoin
Capital](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

## Multicoin Capital

©2017-2021 Multicoin Capital. All Rights Reserved.

