[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ 中文 ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [updates](../../../blog/updates)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Aug 25, 2020  

## More Ways to Keep Building on the Filecoin Network

Around the world, thousands of individuals and teams are devoting their
energy, talent, and resources to making Filecoin an important building block
of the internet’s evolving infrastructure. As we saw these past few weeks
during [HackFS](http://hackfs.com/), the products and services these teams are
building are truly revolutionary (see our [recap
post](https://filecoin.io/blog/hackfs-finale/) for more info). HackFS alone
inspired more than 130 projects to power the decentralized web. Co-hosted by
Protocol Labs and EthGlobal, the month-long hackathon drew more than 470
hackers from 50 countries across 19 time zones. And this summer’s [Spark
University Hackathon](https://summerspark.encode.club/), a 6-week virtual
hackathon run by [Encode Club](https://www.encode.club/), attracted 50 teams
from universities across the world to build on Filecoin. Winners from that
challenge will be announced on August 31st.

To maintain this momentum, we’re teaming up with other Web3 leaders to create
more opportunities for developers to build and showcase their projects.
Collectively, these new programs are part of [Filecoin
Ignite](https://ignite.fil.events/), a mission ahead of mainnet launch to
build a strong, sustainable Web3 community.

Keep reading to learn more about how you can participate in two new programs
designed to foster the next generation of the web: Filecoin Launchpad
Accelerator and Filecoin APOLLO.

### [Filecoin Launchpad Accelerator](https://labs.consensys.net/tachyon/)

![Filecoin Launchpad
Accelerator](https://filecoin.io/vintage/images/blog/ignite-launchpad.jpg)

[Apply now](https://tachyon.submittable.com/submit/170134/filecoin-launchpad-
accelerator-powered-by-tachyon) for the Filecoin Launchpad Accelerator,
powered by [Tachyon](https://labs.consensys.net/tachyon/), a program designed
to offer up to 20 teams twelve weeks of funding, mentorship, benefits, and
programming around business and blockchain-specific issues.

The program is designed to accelerate the adoption of Filecoin within the
Ethereum and DeFi ecosystems, and attract web developers looking to leverage
the benefits of decentralized storage.

Launchpad culminates in a Demo Day, and teams will be offered post-program
fundraising support. Teams will be able to leverage access to the ConsenSys
and Protocol Labs networks and expertise, ranging from entrepreneurs and legal
advisors to pathbreaking technical researchers. Each team will receive $80,000
USD in investment.

This cohort will be focused on startups building more open, interoperable, and
programmable tools, infrastructure, and applications for the distributed web
through IPFS and Filecoin. There’s still time to get involved – applications
close August 28th! If you have any questions, you can join the [#fil-ignite-
launchpad](https://app.slack.com/client/TEHTVS1L6/C0192P674KY) channel on the
[Filecoin Slack](https://filecoin.io/slack).

### [Filecoin APOLLO](https://gitcoin.co/hackathon/filecoin/onboard)

![Filecoin Launchpad
Accelerator](https://filecoin.io/vintage/images/blog/ignite-apollo.jpg)

Looking for more ways to get involved? [Apply for
APOLLO](https://gitcoin.co/hackathon/filecoin/onboard), a 6-week, invite-only
incubator program designed for Filecoin entrepreneurs and makers building
investable businesses. Co-hosted by Protocol Labs and
[Gitcoin](https://gitcoin.co/), APOLLO kicks off September 1st and will offer
opportunities for more than 150 highly-talented builders to become pioneers of
the Filecoin and Web3 ecosystems. Applications close August 28th.

APOLLO is designed for anyone building a Filecoin infrastructure project,
early-stage Filecoin startups, and other interested builders. Together, we’ll
share ideas, fantastic learning materials, and time building relationships
together around our ideas for a better future.

Special thanks to all of the community organizers, including the teams at
Gitcoin, TachyonEthGlobal and Encode Club who have brought this community
together and helped onboard many many new contributors. We can’t wait to see
what the future holds for Filecoin and the Web3 ecosystem!

If you have any questions, you can join the [#fil-ignite-
apollo](https://app.slack.com/client/TEHTVS1L6/C018JLH2P5L) channel on the
[Filecoin Slack](https://filecoin.io/slack).

We’re looking forward to continuing to work with the builders of web3 through
these programs and more!

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You’ve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

