![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/orchid-joins-the-chamber-of-digital-commerce/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/orchid-joins-the-chamber-of-digital-commerce/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/orchid-joins-the-chamber-of-digital-commerce/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/orchid-joins-the-chamber-of-digital-commerce/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/orchid-joins-the-chamber-of-digital-commerce/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/orchid-joins-the-chamber-of-digital-commerce/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Moving Blockchain Forward: Orchid Joins Chamber of Digital
Commerce](/static/ccaeaaf5550fbf795c5ae2b328046549/Orchid_BlogImage_Chamber.jpg)

# Moving Blockchain Forward: Orchid Joins Chamber of Digital Commerce

Mar 16, 2020  
  

Beyond making the internet open and accessible to everyone, at Orchid we’ve
always promoted the adoption of blockchain tech for innovation and social good
— that’s why all of our technology is open source. Today, we’re proud to
announce that we’ve joined the Chamber of Digital Commerce, an organization
leading the push toward a better public understanding and embrace of
blockchain technology.

Orchid co-founder and CEO Dr. Steven Waterhouse (Seven) said: “Restoring the
internet to the free and open frontier it once was requires not only
advancement in technology, but in policy as well. We’re thrilled to work with
some of the most forward-thinking minds in tech policy to make the
decentralized web a reality.”

Perianne Boring, Founder and President of the Chamber of Digital Commerce
said: “We established the Chamber of Digital Commerce to advocate for the
constructive and inventive use of blockchain and related digital assets.
Orchid’s innovative technology, extensive partnerships, and commitment to
privacy make it a leader in the blockchain world. We’re proud to collaborate
with them.”

As a blockchain-powered platform, Orchid has a responsibility to promote the
acceptance, growth, and understanding of distributed ledger technology. After
much consideration, our team decided that joining the Chamber of Digital
Commerce was one of the best ways to achieve this goal.

The Chamber of Digital Commerce is the largest trade association for
blockchain, with over 200 partners and members, including many of the world’s
largest financial services and blockchain firms. For a full list of the
Chamber’s membership and to learn more about its mission and projects, please
visit [digitalchamber.org](https://digitalchamber.org).

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Moving%20Blockchain%20Forward%3A%20Orchid%20Joins%20Chamber%20of%20Digital%20Commerce%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
joins-the-chamber-of-digital-commerce%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
joins-the-chamber-of-digital-commerce%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
joins-the-chamber-of-digital-commerce%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

](/orchid-answers-the-communitys-questions-in-binance-espaol-ama/)

[

#### Orchid answers the community’s questions in Binance Español AMA

](/orchid-answers-the-communitys-questions-in-binance-espaol-ama/)

Feb 23, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

