For better experience, please enable JavaScript.

[Multicoin Capital](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * Media
  * More
  * [Contact](/contact/)

![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

  * [English](/2018/12/18/multicoin-summit-panels-fall-2018/)
  * [中文](/zh/2018/12/18/multicoin-summit-panels-fall-2018/)
  * [한국어](/ko/2018/12/18/multicoin-summit-panels-fall-2018/)
  * 日本語

![](data:image/png;base64,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)

### Search posts

dark mode

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

  * [Archives](https://github.com/multicoincapital/crypto-archives)
  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)

[Videos](/videos/)

## Multicoin Summit Panels: Fall 2018

By [John Robert Reed](/about#6fc07476-9152-5e21-9896-56714c96acf7)

December 18, 2018 | 7 Minute Read

![Copy URL to clipboard
button](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

Our Fall 2018 Summit brought together some of the brightest minds and biggest
thinkers in crypto at New York City’s Dream Hotel. We were very fortunate to
have some of our speakers travel from halfway around the world to be with us
for this meeting of the minds.

This year we touched on some of the most critical issues and exciting topics
in crypto—everything from the readiness of the Web3 stack to stablecoins to
Zero Knowledge Proofs and how they’ll change the world. Fear not if you were
not able to attend; below is a curated list of panels representing the best
talks at the event. You can listen to them via our podcast or watch them in
full on Youtube.

Without further ado, let’s jump in…

**ON PORTFOLIO CONSTRUCTION WITH FRED WILSON & TUSHAR JAIN **

In this fireside chat Fred Wilson of Union Square Ventures and Tushar Jain of
Multicoin Capital explore the ins and outs of modern portfolio construction
for allocators and fund managers alike. Throughout the talk they traverse key
issues such as how to think about long-term vs. short-term conviction,
thematic discovery, strategic exposure, how to pick winners, and (VCs)
investing in cryptofunds. This conversation concludes with passionate remarks
on the trade offs between smart contract platforms and how decentralized
governance is (or is not) working today. This is one that you don’t want to
miss!

![Play
Video](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

**Watch time: 46 minutes**

(Editor’s Note: Regrettably, the camera was bumped several times by attendees
during this talk. The video is at times slightly out of focus. Please listen
to the podcast if you find the video distracting. All other videos are sharp.
Thank you for bearing with!)

**THE STATE OF THE WEB3 STACK**

This panel seeks to answer the central question: When will the Web3 stack
cross the critical threshold of usability, and what are the challenges that
must be overcome to get there?

It features [Kyle Samani](https://twitter.com/kylesamani) of Multicoin
Capital; [Jack O’Holleran](https://twitter.com/jackoholleran), the CEO of
[Skale Labs](https://www.skalelabs.com/), a company solving blockchain
scalability by enabling Ethereum dApps to run high-speed, low-cost smart
contracts in Layer 2; [Tony Sheng](https://twitter.com/tonysheng), the Product
Lead at the Decentraland Foundation, a group building a virtual world that
will grow beyond any centralized control; and [Katherine
Wu](https://twitter.com/katherineykwu), who heads up Business Development for
Messari, a NYC-based crypto startup aimed at promoting transparency and
smarter decision-making in the token ecosystem.

![Play
Video](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

**Watch time: 44 minutes**

 **THE GREAT STABLECOIN DEBATE**

Lauded as the most anticipated panel at the summit, this panel features
speakers from Maker and Reserve, two of the most well known decentralized
stablecoin teams, and Circle, one of the most prominent fiat-crypto
stablecoins in the market.

Presenters include [Nevin Freeman](https://twitter.com/nnevvinn), the CEO and
Co-Founder of Reserve, a full-stack open currency; Steve Becker, the President
& COO of MakerDAO, a decentralized autonomous organization on the Ethereum
blockchain that seeks to minimize the price volatility of its own token, the
Dai, against the IMF’s international currency basket SDR; Vishal Gupta, the
Head of Business Development and Partnerships at Circle; and Kyle Samani of
Multicoin Capital.

![Play
Video](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

**Watch time: 1 hour, 3 minutes**

 **ON AGGREGATION THEORY AND THIN PROTOCOLS**

[Fat Protocols](http://www.usv.com/blog/fat-protocols) sparked a revolution
when it was first published in 2016. It’s absolutely essential reading for
everyone in the industry. This panel brings together three leading GPs in
crypto to reexamine the thesis and challenge its long-term viability two years
after it was first proposed.

This panel features Kyle Samani of Multicoin Capital; [Joey
Krug](https://twitter.com/joeykrug), the Co-CIO of Pantera Capital (and the
co-founder of Augur, a decentralized prediction market platform); and [Jesse
Walden](https://twitter.com/jessewldn), a Partner at a16zcrypto.

![Play
Video](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

**Watch time: 36 minutes**

 **ZERO KNOWLEDGE PROOFS: MIND BENDING TECH THAT’S GOING TO CHANGE THE WORLD**

Stick with us for this panel (it was Kyle’s favorite). Zero Knowledge Proofs
(ZKPs) will fundamentally change human, business, and government relationships
in ways that we cannot possibly understand yet. This panel features the three
most important companies building ZKPs: Zcash, Coda, and Starkware.

Panel participants include Kyle Samani of Multicoin Capital; Uri Kolodny, a
Co-Founder and CEO at StarkWare Industries, a company working to improve
scalability and privacy in blockchains using STARK technology; [Evan
Shapiro](https://twitter.com/evanashapiro), the CEO at Coda, the first
cryptocurrency with a constant-sized blockchain; and [Josh
Swihart](https://twitter.com/jswihart) (the winner of the best impromptu
demonstration award), a Vice President at the Zcash Company, which supports
the development of the Zcash cryptocurrency — a privacy-protecting, digital
currency built on strong science.

![Play
Video](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

**Watch time: 30 minutes**

 **THE EVOLVING ROLE OF CRYPTO INVESTORS __**

[The role of crypto investors is
evolving](https://multicoin.capital/2018/10/23/the-evolving-role-of-crypto-
investors/)—rapidly. Blockchain technologies will create trillions of dollars
of value over the next decade. But investing in tokens is fundamentally
different than investing in companies. New tools, heuristics, and security
measures are required to responsibly invest in this ecosystem.

It’s not enough to simply be a pure custodian or asset manager any more.
Crypto-native managers also bear the responsibility of ushering nascent
markets to stability—by way of investment, governance, and active
participation. This panel brings together managers from disparate backgrounds
to share their perspective and experience.

This panel features [Tushar Jain](https://twitter.com/tusharjain_) of
Multicoin Capital; [Ari Paul](https://twitter.com/aridavidpaul), the CIO of
Blocktower Capital; Alex Felix, Managing Director and CIO at CoinFund; [Josh
Nussbaum](https://twitter.com/josh_nussbaum), a Partner at Compound.vc; and
last but not least, [Shane Molidor](https://twitter.com/molidorshane?lang=en),
the Global Head of Business Development for FBG One.

![Play
Video](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

 **Watch time: 55 minutes**

* * *

In closing, we’d like to extend a very special thanks to our sponsors—
[Coinbase Custody](https://custody.coinbase.com/), [FBG
One](https://www.fbg.capital/), [Circle](https://www.circle.com/en/), and
[Genesis Capital](https://genesiscap.co/)—who all helped make this event
possible. We’re fortunate to have such great partners in more than one way.

**MAKE SURE TO SUBSCRIBE TO OUR PODCASTS
ON[ITUNES](https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/conversations-with-multicoin-
capital/id1337809097?mt=2) OR [LIBSYN](http://multicoin.libsyn.com/), OUR
YOUTUBE CHANNEL
[HERE](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCI0WoT9igEs564tOHDhu1AA), AND OUR
[BLOG](https://multicoin.capital/) FOR MORE PANELS AND FUTURE UPDATES.**

If you’d like to request an invite to either our Spring Summit in Half Moon
Bay or our Fall Summit in NYC, please email us summit@multicoin.capital.

Thank you for listening!

 _Nothing on the website or its associated services constitutes professional
or financial advice of any kind (including business, employment, investment
advisory, accounting, tax, and/or legal advice). Nothing on the website or its
associated services constitutes or forms a part of any offer for sale or
subscription of, or any invitation to offer to buy or subscribe for, any
securities, nor should it or any part of it form the basis of, or be relied
upon in connection with, any contract or commitment whatsoever._

+ Show More

Subscribe to our **Youtube Channel** for the best insights in crypto

[Subscribe](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCI0WoT9igEs564tOHDhu1AA?sub_confirmation=1)

### More Videos

[Conversations From The 2021 Multicoin Summit
[VIDEOS]](/2021/12/17/conversations-from-the-2021-multicoin-summit/)[The
Stacks Podcast with Kyle Samani & Muneeb Ali (Blockstack
PBC)](/2020/05/04/the-stacks-podcast-with-kyle-samani-and-muneeb-ali/)[Kyle
Samani Speaks with BlockchainBrad about Crypto Investments ](/2019/11/29/kyle-
samani-speaks-with-blockchainbrad-about-crypto-investments/)[Laura Shin and
Kyle Samani discuss How 2020 Will Be the Year of Small Success
Stories](/2020/01/03/laura-shin-and-kyle-samani-discuss-how-2020-will-be-the-
year-of-small-success-stories/)[Unchained Podcast: Teetering on the Edge: How
Black Thursday Exposed the Flaws in the Crypto Markets -
Ep.164](/2020/03/23/unchained-podcast-how-black-thursday-exposed-the-flaws-in-
the-crypto-markets/)[Ben Sparango and Tony Sheng talk The Trust Spectrum on
the Chain Reaction Podcast](/2020/05/13/ben-sparango-and-tony-sheng-talk-the-
trust-spectrum-on-the-chain-reaction-podcast/)[Watch Fireside Chats with
Solana, Helium, Ribbit Capital from the Fall 2020 Multicoin Summit
](/2020/11/03/fall-2020-multicoin-summit/)[Blizscaling: How a Crypto Startup
Rapidly Grows a Global Business](/2019/11/28/blizscaling-how-a-crypto-startup-
rapidly-grows-a-global-business/)[Ethereal Virtual Summit 2020: Fireside Chat
with SKALE Labs](/2020/05/12/ethereal-virtual-summit-2020-fireside-chat-with-
skale-labs/)[Fall 2019 Multicoin Summit Recap (VIDEOS)
](/2019/12/19/fall-2019-multicoin-summit-recap/)[Inside the Room at the Spring
2019 Multicoin Summit (Videos) ](/2019/05/14/spring-2019-multicoin-summit-
videos/)[Multicoin Summit: the State of Dapp
Development](/2018/06/08/multicoin-summit-the-state-of-dapp-
development/)[Multicoin Summit: Challenges and Opportunities for the
Tokenization of Securities](/2018/05/31/multicoin-summit-challenges-and-
opportunities/)

[Read NextA New Model for Token Distribution](/2018/11/09/new-models-for-
token-distribution/)

![John Robert
Reed](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/6jWCv8UL2kFPJizX6Lo2lh/718c8af0338d01af3ad120ffe8378314/john_robert__1_.jpg)

By [John Robert Reed](/about#6fc07476-9152-5e21-9896-56714c96acf7)

[@johnrobertreed](https://twitter.com/johnrobertreed)

More Tags

[Writing](/blog/category/blog/)[Featured](/blog/category/featured/)[Podcasts](/podcasts/)[Videos](/videos/)

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER FOR THE BEST INSIGHTS IN CRYPTO

[![phoenix](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/72L5sEuJXOA7PvWBZM540E/27909d6ff5cda80158665ca43514b11c/phoenix_logo_white.svg)Subscribe](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)

* * *

  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)

  * [Podcasts](/podcasts/)
  * [Videos](/videos/)
  * [Subscribe](https://multicoin.capital/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

### GET IN TOUCH

We’re always looking for compelling ideas, business, and partnership
opportunities. We also enjoy reading your feedback. If you’re submitting a
business proposal, please include a clear description and any resources that
could help us evaluate your opportunity.

[hello@multicoin.capital](mailto:hello@multicoin.capital)

* * *

![Multicoin
Capital](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

## Multicoin Capital

©2017-2021 Multicoin Capital. All Rights Reserved.

