[ Woobull ](https://woobull.com)

  * [About](https://woobull.com/about/)
  * [Charts](http://charts.woobull.com/)
  * [Articles](https://woobull.com/)
  * [→ Research](https://woobull.com/tag/research/)
  * [→ Infographics](https://woobull.com/tag/infographic/)
  * [→ Humour](https://woobull.com/tag/humour/)
  * [→ Bitcoin](https://woobull.com/tag/bitcoin/)
  * [→ Markets](https://woobull.com/tag/markets/)
  * [→ Dataviz](https://woobull.com/tag/data-visualisation/)
  * [→ Altcoins](https://woobull.com/tag/altcoins/)
  * [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNSawUAJPtGqnhpucPqdDrw)

[ ](https://twitter.com/woonomic "Twitter")

Subscribe

[Bitcoin](https://woobull.com/tag/bitcoin/)

# My thoughts on Bitcoin's network congestion

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

#### [Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/)

Dec 31, 2017 • 2 min read

Here's a wee chart below to illustrate my thoughts on Bitcoin's transactional
network the last two years.

![btc-transaction-demand](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-31-bitcoin-
congestion/btc-transaction-demand.png)

The Bitcoin network hasn’t been able to keep up with peak transactional demand
since 2016, since 2017 it hasn’t been able to keep up with the AVERAGE
transactional demand.

Meanwhile our current scaling path is Segwit which relies on a the entire
industry to organically adopt, and this will take some time. And here's our
progress thus far...

![segwit-adoption](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-31-bitcoin-
congestion/segwit-adoption.png)

My guess, optimistically, is we have at least one year of pain until Segwit
gets adopted widely enough to alleviate serious congestion. (The Lightning
Network thereafter should allow even more pain to be lifted but this is
probably an even slower adoption curve due to its additional complexities for
user interation.)

Until then, I suspect keeping blocks this small will have a side effect of the
most dangerous type of centralisation as speculators keep large funds in
exchanges, also known as crypto-asset banks, rather to risk sending funds into
the mempool abyss awaiting processing. Very ironic.

## Thoughts on the Markets?

I'm not entirely sure what will happen. There's really two effects which I
think will superimpose to form the general picture of 2018.

### A tidal wave of money

I'm expecting a tidal wave of money to hit the crypto-asset markets. This is
because institutional investors will be pretty much forced to allocate a
fraction of their combined trillions into a new non-correlated asset class to
hedge risk, and only in 2018 are the crypto-assets big enough to carry this
money.

They'll go to the largest liquidity pools, which traditionally means Bitcoin
but in 2018 to a lesser degree the option is there for highly liquid altcoins
like Ethereum and Bitcoin Cash. I suspect Bitcoin will be the the front runner
as $200 transaction fee will hardly deter a hedge fund.

### The altcoin waterfall effect

However in early 2017 when congestion forced the transaction fees up and
speculators could not sweep the scaling debate under the rug, we saw a
waterfalling of money into altcoins. This could happen again.

![segwit-adoption](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-31-bitcoin-
congestion/alt-coin-mcap-and-scaling-debate.png)

### My best guess?

Everything goes up. But particularly:

  * High liquidity crypto-assets
  * Protocols that promise scaleability
  * Protocols that promise governance

## Sign up for more like this.

Enter your email Subscribe

[

## Supply Shock, predicting price by quantifying intent to buy and sell

IntroductionIn any market, price is driven by demand and supply. This is a
fundamental. The most obvious way of seeing this is in the bid and asks
between buyers and sellers. A more nuanced way would be to wave a magic wand
and gauge the intent of investors before the

](/quantifying-supply-shock/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Aug 10, 2021 • 4 min read

[

## The two types of Altcoins, an investor's view

This is a thread on altcoins, first published on Twitter. Altcoins are
nuanced. We have: Protocol coinsUtility tokensSecurity tokensNon-fungible
tokensBut to an investor, there's only 2 types. Oscillators and Degenerators.
You can spot them on this chart of the entire market. The vast majority of
alt-coins are Degenerators. Their price

](/the-two-types-of-altcoins-an-investors-view/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Nov 7, 2019 • 2 min read

[

## Introducing the Difficulty Ribbon, signaling the best times to buy Bitcoin

Introducing the Bitcoin Difficulty Ribbon. When the ribbon compresses, or
flips negative, these are the best times to buy Bitcoin. The ribbon consists
of simple moving averages on mining difficulty so we can easily see the rate
of change in difficulty. How it the Difficulty Ribbon worksThis visualisation
of network

](/introducing-the-difficulty-ribbon-the-best-times-to-buy-bitcoin/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Aug 1, 2019 • 2 min read

[Woobull](https://woobull.com) (C) 2022

[Powered by Ghost](https://ghost.org/)

