[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/71dfd123ff78&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Mysterium
Network](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*17ydm95DmW8qBxy7RmyVdg.png)](https://medium.com/mysterium-
network?source=post_page-----71dfd123ff78--------------------------------)

Published in

[Mysterium Network

](https://medium.com/mysterium-network?source=post_page-----
71dfd123ff78--------------------------------)

[![Roberto
Vis](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/0*RSohKtHvz8Hd5X5D.jpg)](/@robertovis?source=post_page
-----71dfd123ff78--------------------------------)

[Roberto Vis](/@robertovis?source=post_page-----
71dfd123ff78--------------------------------)

Follow

Nov 11, 2019

·

5 min read

# Mysterium Network Partners with AVADO

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*NeP4jBG8WG0gMQLT0NFJbQ.png)

As Mysterium grows, we want to find the many new and exciting ways you can
both be a part of our network, and take advantage of the token economy. [Check
out our article on 14 ways to earn crypto
online](https://mysterium.network/2019/06/14/be-a-part-of-exciting-token-
economies-and-earn-extra-money-online/).

There are countless projects out there building the foundation of the
decentralised world, and AVADO is one pioneer helping to drive the evolution
of the Web3.

# Who is AVADO?

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*BOuyPR04iblpI90KalO8VA.png)

AVADO enables you to be a part of your favourite decentralised projects, like
Mysterium. The team created an amazingly simple plug and play hardware device
that connects you to many different kinds of blockchains.

Using the AVADO Box, anyone can become a node to help power decentralised
networks and earn cryptocurrency in the process.

 _[For those who need to know — How does a node work?_

 _In a distributed peer-to-peer network, a node represents a single device,
such as a computer or hardware device, which helps power and maintain that
network. Through these transparent, secure and community-run systems, value
can easily be digitised and shared. People are incentivised to contribute
their resources, such as bandwidth or processing power, sharing it directly
with the entire network without any kind of official host or authority needed.
Nodes are paid for contributing their resources.]_

Running your own node is usually very resource-intensive, requiring complex
software as well as a lot of computer storage and bandwidth. AVADO makes it
easy to be a node as it is designed to handle the CPU and disk-intensive
aspects of running one. It provides a huge amount of RAM, ample Disk space,
Internet access, and more.

There’s a lot of information floating around that running a node is very
expensive. With AVADO, it only costs roughly $50 dollars per year to run.
These low operational costs invite everyone to join.

The Box has its own operating system, so you can choose between various
blockchains, like Bitcoin, Ethereum or Monero. The best part is you can run
these multiple blockchain nodes at once, so Mysterium is just one of the many
networks you can be a part of.

AVADO now offers smart mining, which is where we come in. Mysterium is the
first smart mining application, so the AVADO community can install our node
software, start sharing their bandwidth to help power [our decentralised
VPN](https://mysterium.network/vpn/) and earn up $600 worth of ETH in a year!
[Find out how you can earn in our
network.](https://help.mysterium.network/en/articles/3434344-what-are-the-
requirements-to-receive-the-bounty-eth-payments)

You can use the AVADO Wizard which helps you get started. The Wizard walks you
through the entire process.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*1oKmJlqi34Fem8dc.png)

# Howdy, partner

Mysterium and AVADO met last year, and the synergy between the two teams was
obvious.

AVADO is decentralisation in a box. It’s agnostic, open-source and wants to
put blockchains in the hands of everyday people. We’re both working towards a
greater vision where users reclaim the internet. Our teams believe in the
potential of residential nodes to power the Web3, independently of Web2 ISP
and servers.

On a technical level, our projects also compliment each other. Mysterium’s
software can easily be installed onto their hardware, so AVADO users have more
blockchain magic to play with.

Collaboration is one of our industry’s biggest strengths and secret weapons.
Other technology sectors and companies want to keep their research, insights
and code private to remain competitive. They want to outperform, rather than
lift up, other projects to maximise their profit.

This has been the opposite for decentralised communities. By partnering,
collaborating and learning together, the development of our ecosystem
accelerates. We are open-source and transparent so we can learn from each
other’s mistakes or innovations. When other developers and teams know where we
got it right, they can build on top of our own work and research.

“If you want to go quickly, go alone. If you want to go far, go together.”

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*PWhhdgOkDKibRqGO.png)

# Now it’s over to you

Blockchains need people power.

While teams like Mysterium and AVADO provide the infrastructure and tools, our
communities are the fuel which ignites decentralization. The more people
running a node at home, the stronger, faster and more stable these global
networks become, and the faster we can achieve true decentralization.

An open internet also offers both digital and economic freedom. Running a
personal node means that you are in control of your own data and your privacy.
Your personal information and online activity cannot be logged or stored in
private servers, so your data cannot be commoditized or sold to businesses.

# How to set up Mysterium on your AVADO

Check out this step by step instructional video by the amazing team at Avado.
We’re super excited about this partnership and hope you are too!

Like the progress you’re seeing? Show us some love by sharing this article
with your friends. Or join the [Mysterium node pilot
program](https://help.mysterium.network/en/articles/3434344-what-are-the-
requirements-to-receive-the-bounty-eth-payments) today.

[Original article](https://mysterium.network/2019/08/27/mysterium-avado-
partnership/) on [Mysterium Network’s
blog](https://mysterium.network/blog/\\).

[![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1360/1*KVemUIEgTpc-
zXcp0L3hjQ.jpeg)](https://mailchi.mp/mysterium.network/newsletter)[![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1360/1*oQQM-0ehwV3qaOQVLyUHfQ.jpeg)](https://discord.me/mysterium)

[![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1360/1*lEacU_01BunT2KNjtTv4QA.jpeg)](https://twitter.com/MysteriumNet)[![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1360/1*x369MiNvI6Tg3BqAp9uhcg.png)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCBxzWnZEHvuj-
nfP00YImHQ)[![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1360/1*hXGcxWk6fFWeh-
MqlwhoZg.jpeg)](https://t.me/mysterium_network)

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Mysterium Network](/mysterium-network?source=post_page-----
71dfd123ff78--------------------------------)

Decentralized VPN built on blockchain - https://mysterium.network

[Read more from Mysterium Network](/mysterium-network?source=post_page-----
71dfd123ff78--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![eosys](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*-lhpcVnHROsfgcWmMep41Q.png)](/@eosys?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[eosys

](/@eosys?source=post_internal_links---------0----------------------------)

in

[EOSYS

](https://medium.com/eosys?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## EOS Worker Proposal System Announcement

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*88CJ3b6zYg7RanWvXND_Zw.png)](/eosys/eos-
worker-proposal-system-announcement-6addcfb0134c?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[[![TheLuWizz](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*2FdfwVOhMYi64DT0gPBQ6A.png)](/@theluwizz?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[TheLuWizz

](/@theluwizz?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

in

[The Capital

](https://medium.com/the-capital?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## How does Cardano work?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*ddXhFQHezhXe9zUi.png)](/the-
capital/how-does-cardano-work-b2316309c4a5?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Pist
Trust](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*04AdM1u6HAZGRQaZeYwtYA.jpeg)](/@pist-
trust?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

[Pist Trust

](/@pist-trust?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Announcing Strategic Partnership with MAP Protocol

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*Z6ivY0VxQkKIk7kr)](/@pist-
trust/announcing-strategic-partnership-with-map-
protocol-e66534373d97?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Arindam Paul](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*4HX-
jkI2tlf2GulCxpEVnA.png)](/@lottoken7604323?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[Arindam Paul

](/@lottoken7604323?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

in

[Lottoken.org

](https://medium.com/lottoken-org?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Introducing Lottoken: Fair and transparent contests for all

](/lottoken-org/introducing-lottoken-fair-and-transparent-contests-for-
all-671eefab48ec?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![GTE
IO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*vydaWrXJG9NP0Kk5R2fkMw.jpeg)](/@gte.io?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[GTE IO

](/@gte.io?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

## Top 5 Masternodes Programs to Watch For in 2020

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*N9cUqT9r9uZnyqC6)](/@gte.io/top-5-masternodes-
programs-to-watch-for-in-2020-c9900fbbf024?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Anton
McConville](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*N7_IE8wZr5eVuTJV.png)](/@antonmc?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Anton McConville

](/@antonmc?source=post_internal_links---------5----------------------------)

## Creating a Blockchain wellness app on IBM Cloud

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*i1kosJBEqRN0hktRim61Lg.png)](/@antonmc/creating-
a-blockchain-wellness-app-on-ibm-cloud-a0e785429267?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[[![Samuel
James](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*jHisg6PwGAE6cYc1xPqbeQ.jpeg)](/@samueluj23?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Samuel James

](/@samueluj23?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Polkadot is a heterogeneous multi-chain with scalability.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*zeoWQPnD0rvIjyvIMBymQw.png)](/@samueluj23/polkadot-
is-a-heterogeneous-multi-chain-with-
scalability-e8da1d749fb2?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![DTCC
Connection](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*xQ7gILbMlGN38jyGxSl3mA.jpeg)](/@dtcc-
connection?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

[DTCC Connection

](/@dtcc-connection?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Two Teams — One Goal: DTCC’s Digitization Strategy

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*8MmAGBQxO42z3Mxj)](/@dtcc-
connection/two-teams-one-goal-dtccs-digitization-strategy-
dab18927121c?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----71dfd123ff78--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
71dfd123ff78--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
71dfd123ff78--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
71dfd123ff78--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
71dfd123ff78--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----71dfd123ff78--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----71dfd123ff78--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fmysterium-
network%2Fmysterium-network-partners-with-avado-71dfd123ff78&source=post_page
--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Roberto
Vis](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/0*RSohKtHvz8Hd5X5D.jpg)](/@robertovis)

[

## Roberto Vis

](/@robertovis)

1.4K Followers

Helping build an ecosystem of Empowerment.

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F5e9e7bc80970&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fmysterium-
network%2Fmysterium-network-partners-with-
avado-71dfd123ff78&newsletterV3=af677b29d743&newsletterV3Id=5e9e7bc80970&user=Roberto+Vis&userId=af677b29d743&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![CurioDAO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*ga14MvO-a5WZXHTkfdL3Pg.png)](/@investcurio?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------69f0fb79_cb32_451c_9bd6_35760912345a-------)

[CurioDAO

](/@investcurio?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
69f0fb79_cb32_451c_9bd6_35760912345a-------)

## CT1 Token Gets listed on IX Swap

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*oEJTwosVpSh4Oycz.png)](/@investcurio/ct1-token-
gets-listed-on-ix-swap-d68645847094?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------69f0fb79_cb32_451c_9bd6_35760912345a-------)

[[![J.G.](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*UWhXjWDSvJYSMAp6M7TF1Q@2x.jpeg)](/@jtgrier_38201?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------69f0fb79_cb32_451c_9bd6_35760912345a-------)

[J.G.

](/@jtgrier_38201?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
69f0fb79_cb32_451c_9bd6_35760912345a-------)

## NEW ATLANTA BASED ARTIST HITS THE GROUND RUNNING WITH UNIQUE NFT
COLLECTION!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*kPcz06pKc1Lbx5CJZ0RfkA@2x.jpeg)](/@jtgrier_38201/new-
atlanta-based-artist-hits-the-ground-running-with-unique-nft-
collection-f924fc3932ef?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
69f0fb79_cb32_451c_9bd6_35760912345a-------)

[[![Anastasia Strunova |
bloqhub](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*9RDl1Jjbjlz1Jj4H)](/@strunova.nastya?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------69f0fb79_cb32_451c_9bd6_35760912345a-------)

[Anastasia Strunova | bloqhub

](/@strunova.nastya?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
69f0fb79_cb32_451c_9bd6_35760912345a-------)

in

[Bloqhub

](https://medium.com/bloqhub?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------69f0fb79_cb32_451c_9bd6_35760912345a-------)

## Uptick Market test network overview

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*QTfafsAghVpd7GDYP_zLCA.jpeg)](/bloqhub/uptick-
market-test-network-overview-3b416f3942b1?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------69f0fb79_cb32_451c_9bd6_35760912345a-------)

[[![Max Theyse](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*wB0L_50mdCxD-
Vg8_OvUwQ.png)](/@meyse?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
69f0fb79_cb32_451c_9bd6_35760912345a-------)

[Max Theyse

](/@meyse?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
69f0fb79_cb32_451c_9bd6_35760912345a-------)

in

[Verus Coin

](https://medium.com/veruscoin?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------69f0fb79_cb32_451c_9bd6_35760912345a-------)

## March/April 2022 — Verus Monthly Recap

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*8Gx4RGdl6xVIRJKzX-_0YQ.png)](/veruscoin/march-
april-2022-verus-monthly-recap-1501ccea1b26?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------69f0fb79_cb32_451c_9bd6_35760912345a-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

