For better experience, please enable JavaScript.

[Multicoin Capital](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * Media
  * More
  * [Contact](/contact/)

![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

  * [English](/2018/02/13/new-models-utility-tokens/)
  * [中文](/zh/2018/02/13/new-models-utility-tokens/)
  * [한국어](/ko/2018/02/13/new-models-utility-tokens/)
  * 日本語

![](data:image/png;base64,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)

### Search posts

dark mode

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

  * [Archives](https://github.com/multicoincapital/crypto-archives)
  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)

[Featured](/blog/category/featured/)

## New Models for Utility Tokens

By [Kyle Samani](/about#225b2112-7be1-5fc9-8755-db7e245ba5a5)

February 13, 2018 | 15 Minute Read

![Copy URL to clipboard
button](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

There are three types of cryptoassets: stores of value, security tokens, and
utility tokens. General-purpose stores of value should be valued using the
[equation of exchange](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Equation_of_exchange
"equation of exchange") because these currencies are independent monetary
bases. Examples include [Bitcoin](https://bitcoin.org/ "btc"), [Bitcoin
Cash](https://www.bitcoincash.org/ "bch"), [Zcash](https://z.cash/ "zcash"),
[Dash](https://www.dash.org/ "dash"), [Monero](https://getmonero.org/
"monero"), and [Decred](https://www.decred.org/ "decred").

Although some may disagree, I also include the native tokens of smart contract
platforms such as [Ethereum](https://www.ethereum.org/ "eth"),
[EOS](https://eos.io/ "eos"), [Dfinity](https://dfinity.org/ "dfinity"), and
[Kadena](http://kadena.io/ "kadena") in this category. Why? Because there’s a
real chance that the native token of a smart contract platform that becomes
sufficiently useful will emerge as an independent store of value.

I won’t touch on security tokens in this essay as traditional securities are
widely understood. Moving securities onto a blockchain, while better than
legacy systems in terms of settlement times and custodianship, doesn’t change
anything about the nature of the security itself.

This essay will focus on utility tokens.

 **Background**

The vast majority of ICOs that launched in 2016 and 2017 were utility tokens
that also acted as proprietary payment currencies. These include many of the
highest-profile projects: Filecoin, Golem, 0x, Civic, Raiden, Basic Attention
Token, and more.

Each of these cryptocurrencies is presenting itself as a freestanding monetary
base. Monetary bases should be valued using the [equation of
exchange](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/e/equation_of_exchange.asp
"equation of exchange"): MV = PQ. Therefore M = PQ/V.

As I noted in [Understanding Token
Velocity](https://multicoin.capital/2017/12/08/understanding-token-velocity/
"understanding token velocity"), the V in the equation of exchange is a huge
problem for basically all proprietary payment currencies. Proprietary payment
currencies are, generally speaking, susceptible to the velocity problem, which
will exert perpetual downwards price pressure. Due to this effect, I expect to
see utility tokens that are just proprietary payment currencies exceed a
velocity of 100. Velocities of 1,000 are even possible. As a point of
reference, the USD M1 supply has a velocity of
[5.5](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/M1V "velocity").

Below I’ll present two new token economic models that address the velocity
problem for utility tokens. Both models are primarily designed to optimize for
the following:

The price of the utility token should increase approximately linearly with
usage of the network.

Of course, the corollary to this is that the price of the native token should
decrease if usage of the network falls, or grows more slowly than previously
forecast.

 **Work Tokens**

Augur is the pioneer of the work token model. Keep is another example.

In the work token model, a service provider stakes (AKA bonding) the native
token of the network to earn the right to perform work for the network. For
services which are commodities such as Keep (off-chain private computation),
Filecoin (distributed file storage), Livepeer (distributed video encoding),
Truebit (off-chain verifiable computation), and even “decentralized mechanical
Turk” powered by humans such as [Gems](https://gems.org/ "gems"), the
probability that a given service provider is awarded the next job is
proportional to the number of tokens staked as a fraction of total tokens
staked by all service providers.

The beauty of the work token model is that, absent any speculators, increased
usage of the network will cause an increase in the price of the token. As
demand for the service grows, more revenue will flow to service providers.
Given a fixed supply of tokens, service providers will rationally pay more per
token for the right to earn part of a growing cash flow stream.

Most work tokens systems enforce some sort of mechanism to penalize workers
who fail to perform their job to some pre-specified standard. For example, in
Filecoin, service providers contractually commit to storing some data for a
period of time. During the life of the contract, service providers must lock
up some number of Filecoin, and the file must be available 24/7 with some
minimum bandwidth guarantee. If the service provider does not adhere to this
standard, she’s automatically penalized by the protocol, and some of her
staked tokens are slashed (taken away).

The valuation model for work tokens is simple: [net present
value](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/n/npv.asp "npv") (NPV).

Relative to the traditional “tokens as money” model, the work token model
completely changes the terminal value calculation of a utility token. Let’s
consider Filecoin to highlight the magnitude of the discrepancy.

The Filecoin team has suggested that their target market is
[$110B](https://coinlist.co/assets/index/filecoin_index/Filecoin-
Primer-c74e73db1d65598ca171397df9d219de6b7a7ef80a4886bb152c01883aea7e79.pdf
"coinlist") (page 16) in 2021. These figures are based on the legacy model of
buying hard drives with the express intent of renting them out, rather than
leveraging what is otherwise unused capacity. Filecoin is likely to offer to
substantially lower unit prices. Let’s be conservative and assume that
Filecoin doesn’t reduce prices at all.

Filecoin, using the “token as money” model, will have a high velocity. The
velocity will not approach infinity—there is an upper limit because storage
providers in the Filecoin network must post a deposit before storing files.
The exact mechanics of this staking system are not yet set. Regardless, this
mechanism guarantees some upper bound on the velocity of Filecoin tokens
(similarly, transaction fees also impose some upper bound; however, that upper
bound is likely to be so high as to be irrelevant in the context of this
essay).

The velocity of the USD M1 is about 5.5. Prior to the financial crisis (in
which the Federal Reserve approximately doubled the money supply), the
velocity was about 10. But 10 isn’t a realistic assumption for Filecoin. Given
that Filecoin isn’t intended to be general-purpose money, and that there’s not
a compelling motivation to hold Filecoin beyond the minimum staking
requirements, I’ll assume 3-10x higher velocity than USD M1. This implies a
velocity of 30-100.

The terminal value for Filecoin—assuming 100% market saturation— is therefore
somewhere in the range of $1.1B-$3.6B ($110B/100 and $110B/30).

Now, let’s consider Filecoin’s potential terminal value in the work token
model. Terminal value can be calculated as cash flow / discount rate. Assuming
a discount rate of
[40%](http://people.stern.nyu.edu/adamodar/pdfiles/papers/younggrowth.pdf "nyu
stern discount rate") and operating margins of 50%*, the potential terminal
value of Filecoin is $110B x 50% / 40% = $137.5B.

The work token model captures ~100x more value than the proprietary payment
currency model.

How is this possible?

Considering utility tokens as a proprietary payment currency, terminal value
will trend towards a value that’s a fraction of transaction volume. Why?
Because, per the equation of exchange, M = PQ/V, and assuming a V > 1, M must
be less than PQ.

On the other hand, if you instead use a utility token as a right to perform
work on behalf of the network, it becomes valued at a multiple of the
operating cash flows that the system generates rather than as a fraction of
revenues paid to service providers __. Moreover, in the work token model, as a
network grows and matures, it will de-risk, decreasing the discount rate, and
ultimately increasing the terminal value (this actually implies that total
token value should grow super-linearly relative to transaction throughput).

The work token model only works if the service being provided is a pure
commodity. If suppliers compete on other variables, such as marketing,
customer service, go-to-market strategies, etc. then the work token model
doesn’t work. The work-token model is predicated on assigning new jobs to
service providers based on their staked tokens. This is not amenable to
service providers who must actively compete for customers. In these types of
networks, another model is necessary.

 **Burn-And-Mint Equilibrium**

[Factom](http://factom.com/ "Factom") is the pioneer of the burn-and-mint
equilibrium (BME) model, and is to the best of my knowledge the only token
with a substantial network value that implements this model. (Factom is
providing a commodity service that could be implemented as a work token;
however, they chose to implement BME instead.)

In the BME model, unlike the work token model, tokens are a proprietary
payment currency. But unlike traditional proprietary payment currencies, users
who want to use a service do not directly pay a counterparty to use the
service. Rather, users burn tokens.

Yes, the customer burns the money.

When the customer burns the money, they do so in the name of the service
provider. That is, the customer publicly acknowledges (on chain) that the
service provider did the work for the money that was burned.

The amount of token burned to access the underlying service should be
denominated in USD. For example, in Factom, the cost of committing an entry to
the Factom blockchain is $.001, regardless of the price of Factoids (FCT) in
USD.

Independently of the token burning process, the protocol should mint X new
tokens per time period, and allocate those tokens to service providers
ratably: If 1 of 50 tokens burned during a token minting period were in the
name of Service Provider A, then Service Provider A should receive 2% of newly
minted tokens.

Note that X does not have to be static. It can be variable, so long as X is
not a function of burned tokens (this would create circular logic, and
ultimately defeat the purpose of BME).

On the surface, it seems like this model could create scenarios in which
service providers are under or overpaid. However, in practice, if the system
is running near equilibrium state, then service providers will be paid the
appropriate amount.

Also note that in the case of Factom, service providers and block producers
are the same. For ERC20 tokens, this is by definition not true since the
Ethereum network abstracts block production. However, the BME model can be
adopted for ERC20 tokens.

Like the work token model, the BME model creates a model in which linear
growth in usage of the network causes linear, non-speculative growth in the
value of the token.

Let’s walk through an example that assumes no market speculators. I’ll assume
the following:

Tokens minted per month: 10,000

Cost of token in USD: $10.00

Unit cost of service: $.001

The system will be in equilibrium—meaning that the number of tokens in
circulation remains unchanged— if 10,000 tokens are burned per month. Since
the cost of using the service is $.001, the system will be in equilibrium if
the service is used (10,000 * 10)/.001 = 100,000,000 times per month. If usage
grows and 15,000 tokens are burned in a month, then total supply will
decrease, creating upwards price pressure. This upwards price pressure means
fewer tokens need to be burned to purchase the same amount of service from the
network, bringing the system back into equilibrium.

The same system works in reverse: If usage slows and more tokens are minted
than burned in a given month, supply increases, creating downwards price
pressure, meaning more tokens have to be burned for the same amount of
service, bringing the system back to equilibrium.

This model assumes that both consumers and service providers never want to
actually hold the proprietary payment currency. Rather, this model assumes
that service providers only want to hold general purpose currencies.

Note that this model doesn’t require that the service being provided is a
commodity. The ratable redistribution of newly minted tokens allows service
providers to price their service however they see fit.

Given that there will always be excess supply floating in the market as
[Menger Goods](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/02/two-malthusian-
scares.html "Menger good"), there isn’t a universal formula model that can be
used to calculate non-speculative value. Regardless, the following can be
generalized:

Price should increase if # of tokens burned > # of tokens of minted

Price should decrease if # of tokens burned < # of tokens of minted

 **When To Use Each Model**

Given that work tokens capture far more value than BME tokens, teams should
try to implement work tokens whenever possible. However, the work token is not
universally applicable. Work tokens are applicable for most decentralized
cloud services such as Filecoin, Keep, Truebit, and Livepeer. These services
can use the work token model because they provide undifferentiated commodity
services. Additionally, work tokens can be used for services that require
human input such as Augur or Gems.

Even systems like Filecoin that offer different levels of service—e.g., amount
of redundancy—can adopt the work token model.

Most other services should use the BME model: Civic, Golem, Raiden, Basic
Attention Token (BAT), 0x, etc. In these models, service providers aren’t
providing a pure commodity. They’re competing on variables that are out of
band relative to the protocol itself. Service providers on the Civic network
compete on business development and partnership development. 0x relayers
compete on UX, quality of API, SLAs, tokens listed, and more. Web publishers
compete on differentiated content in the BAT network.

 **ICOs and Token Distribution**

For tokens that employ the work token model, development teams don’t really
need to worry about token distribution. Why? Because end users don’t ever need
to purchase the token. Service providers seeking yield on underutilized
computing/storage/bandwidth resources will figure out how to make money on
underutilized hardware relatively quickly. Services like
[AwesomeMiner](http://www.awesomeminer.com/ "awesome miner") will emerge for
work token-based staking protocols that dynamically allocate one’s resources
to the most profitable network. [1protocol](https://1protocol.com/
"1protocol") is already working on this.

Unfortunately, the BME model doesn’t provide this same benefit. Systems that
implement the BME model will still need to get their tokens in the hands of
millions of people so that end users can use the service.

 **Pricing (Of Services)**

In systems using work-tokens, the unit price of the service needs to be set at
the network level. Individual service providers cannot set pricing. Relative
to the free-market approach of Filecoin (every miner sets her own price in a
hyper-competitive market), this sounds worse. However, in practice, there will
be competition, not between providers in the same network, but among providers
across different networks. This is similar to how Amazon and Google set prices
for storing 1GB of data in their respective cloud offerings.

In systems implementing BME, every service provider can set her own price.

 **Governance**

For tokens that implement the generic “tokens as money” model, many
entrepreneurs assume that users will have a say in governance. This is
unlikely to be true in practice. Because of the velocity problem, consumers
won’t hold tokens, so they’re unlikely to vote in stake-based governance
models. Why spend time voting on governance issues when you only intend to
hold the token for ten seconds at a time?

The work token model embraces this truth by moving stake-based voting
exclusively to the supply side of the market. This feels a lot more like
decentralized equity in the sense that traditional equity holders vote on what
the company (supply side) should do in the context of a competitive
marketplace.

In the BME model, tokens are still acting as money. It’s unclear how the BME
will impact stake-based voting governance, if at all, relative to the
proprietary payment currencies that don’t implement BME.

 **Network Effects**

Neither of these models should materially affect network effects relative to
the generic “tokens as money” model. Network effects for utility tokens are
not based on liquidity of the token itself. They’re based on the intrinsic
nature of the protocol. For example, the network effect in 0x isn’t the
liquidity between ETH and ZRX, but rather the network effect of the global
liquidity pool of all trading pairs using the 0x protocol. If ZRX tokens adopt
the BME model, the global liquidity pool will remain unchanged. Similarly, the
network effect of Filecoin, which should be approximately log(n) (due to
decreasing value per marginal miner as you approach global saturation), should
not be materially different as a work token versus proprietary payment
currency.

 **Scaling Work Token Networks**

In the work token model, some interesting phenomena emerge as the network
grows in usage and value.

Let’s say that at time of network launch, I own 1% of all Keep tokens, that
the entire Keep network can be powered by 300 mid-range AWS servers, and that
there are no market speculators. In order to perform this work, I need 3 mid-
range AWS servers. Let’s then say that, over the next year, demand for Keep
tokens grows 100x, and that I don’t sell any tokens. In order to service that
demand I’ll need to manage 300 servers.

But I don’t want to manage 300 servers. That’s just too complicated for me.

What now? I can just sell my tokens on the open market. The market should
rationally value the tokens at 100x what they were valued at a year ago,
because the cash flows going through the network are 100x what they were a
year ago.

If the network grows faster than I can grow as a service provider, that’s ok.
I can just sell my tokens to someone else. I may even be able to lend out my
tokens to someone else by using 1protocol or something similar.

 **Synthetic Tokens**

Nothing about either of these models assumes that a given token exists on a
single smart contract platform. Both the work token and BME models are
compatible with synthetic tokens that live across chains as described in [The
Smart Contract Network Effect Fallacy](https://multicoin.capital/smart-
contract-network-effect-fallacy/ "the smart contract network effect fallacy").

 **Conclusion**

For the first time, Ethereum provides a canvas for developers, service
providers, and consumers to transact using programmable money. Work tokens and
the BME model are just two examples of the opportunities created by
programmable money. The design space for programmable money is wide open and
totally unexplored. New models and mechanics will emerge.

As the crypto ecosystem matures, developers will experiment, tweaking and
building on the ideas presented in this essay. As they do, they’ll find new
and creative ways to capture value in the native tokens of their networks
without degrading user experience.

Lastly, I welcome your feedback. Please email research@multicoin.capital with
questions and ideas. I presented a tremendous amount of material in this
essay. I look forward to learning from the public and iterating on the ideas
and designs presented in this essay.

Thanks to Matt Luongo and James Prestwich (Keep), Doug Petkanics and Eric Tang
(Livepeer), Jon Choi (Ethereum Foundation), Will Peets (Passport Capital),
Matt Huang (Sequoia), Gustav Simonsson (Orchid), and the others who provided
input on this essay.

 **Update – April 18th, 2018**

Doug Petkanics of Livepeer has proposed a solution to adding price discovery
to the work token model:

  1. Protocol progresses in rounds.
  2. Worker nodes advertise their price for some unit of work, which will get locked in during the next round.
  3. During the final X% of a round (say 10%), the minimum price offered by any worker node is locked in, and the only price change allowed for other worker nodes is downward adjustment in price up to this minimum amount. The effect of this is that all nodes have the option of matching the minimum offered price.
  4. Users offer the maximum price they’re willing to pay. All worker nodes who have offered a price <= this offered price are considered for the job, and work is distributed to them in proportion to stake.

Since nodes had the option of matching the minimum price, they are essentially
opting in to work distributed in proportion to stake. But if that price is too
low for them to operate profitably, then they’ll likely converge on the 2nd
lowest, or 3rd lowest price. At this point the network risks capacity planning
issues…where users may all offer only the lowest possible price…except a
single or very few nodes at that price won’t be able to handle the full
capacity. This is a different problem which is also solve-able but a little
complex to implement. The capacity issues could just be puntable to the
users…who will determine through observation that they need to offer a higher
price for their job to be picked up and completed in short order.

 **End Notes**

  * Although 50% operating margins are high for a hardware business, Filecoin differs in that there is no hardware cost since the hardware was otherwise going to generate $0 revenue. Also, most service providers in the Filecoin network are unlikely to have any overhead (no rent, no employees, etc.)

 __Note that this is not a “like-to-like” comparison. It’s comparing apples-
to-oranges. “Tokens as money” are valued as a fraction of revenue paid to
service providers, whereas work tokens are valued as a multiple of cash flows.
Cash flows are inclusive of operating expenses. Revenues paid to service
provider are not.

A bug in BME: There is one problem with the BME model: arbitrageurs. This
problem is best understood using a simple example. Let’s say that a protocol
implementing BME mints 100 tokens per 24 hour period. If, at 23 hours and 50
minutes, only 50 tokens have been organically burned, arbitrageurs are
incentivized to arbitrarily burn up to 49 additional tokens in their own name,
as they’re guaranteed a positive ROI.

This is problematic because this means that the tokens implementing BME will
be perpetually deflationary. Arbitrageurs guarantee that the supply will never
inflate, even if organic demand for usage of the service decreases.

You can reduce the scope of this problem by reducing the time interval to a
single block, which is about 15 seconds in Ethereum. Using a time period of a
single block, arbitrageurs have nothing to arbitrage. However, with a minting
schedule this short, miners are incentivized to act as arbitrageurs as
described above by [manipulating](https://blog.keep.network/miners-arent-your-
friends-cde9b6e0e9ac "miners aren't your friends") transaction ordering in
blocks.

A solution to this problem is to use a
[commit/reveal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commitment_scheme#Bit-
commitment_in_the_random_oracle_model "commit reveal") scheme. Will Warren of
0x describes commit-reveal schemes in [this](https://blog.0xproject.com/front-
running-griefing-and-the-perils-of-virtual-settlement-part-2-921b00109e21
"griefing") essay. In the future, this may be addressable using zk-SNARKs.

Factom doesn’t have to deal with this problem because Factom uses a federated
network model in which there are a fixed number of known service providers.
Also, each federated server is guaranteed equal payment.

+ Show More

[Read NextThe Opportunity for Interoperable Chains of
Chains](/2018/01/27/opportunity-interoperable-chains-chains/)

![Kyle
Samani](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/4OF6ywwNnbQLmD5qsIQ9kF/29aa033b59f51bc65fff3729e6948fe4/kyle_samani__2_.jpg)

By [Kyle Samani](/about#225b2112-7be1-5fc9-8755-db7e245ba5a5)

[@kylesamani](https://twitter.com/KyleSamani)

More Tags

[Writing](/blog/category/blog/)[Featured](/blog/category/featured/)[Podcasts](/podcasts/)[Videos](/videos/)

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER FOR THE BEST INSIGHTS IN CRYPTO

[![phoenix](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/72L5sEuJXOA7PvWBZM540E/27909d6ff5cda80158665ca43514b11c/phoenix_logo_white.svg)Subscribe](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)

* * *

  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)

  * [Podcasts](/podcasts/)
  * [Videos](/videos/)
  * [Subscribe](https://multicoin.capital/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

### GET IN TOUCH

We’re always looking for compelling ideas, business, and partnership
opportunities. We also enjoy reading your feedback. If you’re submitting a
business proposal, please include a clear description and any resources that
could help us evaluate your opportunity.

[hello@multicoin.capital](mailto:hello@multicoin.capital)

* * *

![Multicoin
Capital](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

## Multicoin Capital

©2017-2021 Multicoin Capital. All Rights Reserved.

