[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/6ed1d3847283&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Dapper
Labs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*4qrJW34TWRKo2UlCo9IqbQ.png)](https://medium.com/dapperlabs?source=post_page
-----6ed1d3847283--------------------------------)

Published in

[Dapper Labs

](https://medium.com/dapperlabs?source=post_page-----
6ed1d3847283--------------------------------)

[![Dapper
Labs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*4qrJW34TWRKo2UlCo9IqbQ.png)](/@hellodapper?source=post_page
-----6ed1d3847283--------------------------------)

[Dapper Labs](/@hellodapper?source=post_page-----
6ed1d3847283--------------------------------)

Follow

Aug 21, 2019

·

5 min read

# New prizes, updates, and resources from the Cheeze Wizards hackathon

## The Cheeze Wizards hackathon is in full swing—don’t miss your chance to
take part!

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*OYvbe60aBmhddMZu)

[Mark Pereira](https://medium.com/u/6183bc726482?source=post_page-----
6ed1d3847283--------------------------------) a hackathon participant working
from Full Node in Berlin

The interest in the Cheeze Wizards hackathon has been awesome. As a result,
we’ve decided to increase the prize pool, address some requests from
participants, and share some new resources.

  * The Hackathon has been extended to September 15th!
  * New prizes, including big bounties and Devcon tickets, are up for grabs,
  * A bunch of new resources and materials for developers are now available.

More details below!

# First, a quick recap of Cheeze Wizards

Cheeze Wizards is a blockchain game centred around a global tournament where
players summon Wizards, duel one another to gain power, and compete to be the
last standing Wizard. The top Wizard will become the “Big Cheeze,” which is
both the title awarded to the winning Wizard and the tournament Grand Prize
(The Big Cheeze prize is currently over 600 ETH, that gets bigger every time a
Wizard is summoned).

Cheeze Wizards, and the Cheeze Wizards hackathon, is designed to showcase the
power of Open Ecosystems. Read our[ latest thoughts on
Coindesk](https://www.coindesk.com/crypto-gamers-are-showing-little-interest-
in-the-decentralized-nature-of-nfts) on building on open ecosystems from our
CEO [Roham Gharegozlou](https://medium.com/u/57907c0bb0a6?source=post_page
-----6ed1d3847283--------------------------------) and Product Marketer [Brian
Flynn](https://medium.com/u/7efb4f29a89d?source=post_page-----
6ed1d3847283--------------------------------)

The hackathon judges are a diverse panel of industry heavyweights, including:

  * Linda Xie — Co-founder & Managing Director, Scalar Capital — [**@ljxie**](https://twitter.com/ljxie)
  * Arianna Simpson — Managing Director, ASP — [**@AriannaSimpson**](https://twitter.com/AriannaSimpson)
  * Fred Wilson — Managing Partner, Union Square Ventures — [**@fredwilson**](https://twitter.com/fredwilson)
  * Ali Yahya — Partner, a16z crypto — [**@ali01**](https://twitter.com/ali01)
  * Joyce Yang — Founder and CEO of Global Coin Research — [**@JoyceInNYC**](https://twitter.com/JoyceInNYC)
  * Joseph Lubin — Founder, ConsenSys, Co-Founder, Ethereum — [**@ethereumJoseph**](https://twitter.com/ethereumJoseph)
  * Hsiao-Wei Wang — Researcher, Ethereum Foundation — [**@icebearhww**](https://twitter.com/icebearhww)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*8DQAuyiSejdmd4c6)

Cheeze Wizard’s hackathon judges

There are currently hundreds of hackers taking part in the Cheeze Wizards
hackathon, but there’s room for more: [join
here!](https://coinlist.co/build/cheezewizards?utm_source=cwblog&utm_medium=organicblog&utm_campaign=cwhackathon)

# New updates — more time and more support.

The two most popular requests from hackathon participants have been more
office hours with the Cheeze Wizards team, and a possible extension to the
hackathon.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*awx_-WYZUUPTPxEt)

We’re extending the hackathon an extra two weeks. That means there’s even more
time to make a truly magical project for a whole host of delicious prizes!
**The Cheeze Wizards hackathon will now run until September 15, 2019, with the
final winners announced by September 28, 2019.**

Cheeze Wizards team will host an office hours session every week. Bring your
questions and get ready for feedback tomorrow on [**Thursday, August 22nd at
9:30AM PDT**](http://bit.ly/cw-officehour) **.**

# New prizes — Devcon tickets, Satoshi’s treasure, and some limited-edition
swag

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*DwKu0h13QqzM1egA)

New prizes like Devcon tickets, Satoshi’s Treasure key, Cheeze Wizards and
more!

##  **10 x Devcon Tickets + Ethereum swag**

Once a year, the Ethereum community gathers to celebrate the network’s
progress in one of the most popular events of the year. Taking place in Osaka,
Japan, this year, Devcon tickets sold out mere minutes after they went on
sale.

Members of the winning hackathon team will each receive a ticket to Devcon!
Any remaining tickets will be divided with the other winners.

The Dapper Labs team will also be attending Devcon to talk about both
CryptoKitties and Cheeze Wizards.

##  **1 x Satoshi’s Treasure Key**

The winning hackathon team will receive one of Satoshi’s Treasure Keys!

Satoshi’s Treasure is one of the world’s largest treasure hunts, with $1M
bitcoin for whoever finds it. There will be 1,000 keys available for hunters
to find through various encrypted puzzles and hints. Here’s a great way to
kick start your treasure hunting career!

##  **Ethereum Foundation T-shirts**

Some sweet Ethereum swag is waiting for the top 10 teams, along with…

##  **Cheeze Wizards T-shirts**

…limited-edition Cheeze Wizards t-shirts!

You’ve been asking about our exclusive Cheeze Wizards merch, so we designed
something special for this hackathon. You and your team will be one of the
only ones donning the Cheeze Wizard merch in front of all of your friends.
Delicious!

##  **Elemental Cheeze Wizards**

Category winners of the hackathon will receive Cheeze Wizard NFTs. They are
one of the year’s most coveted collectibles! Owning a Cheeze Wizard will be
your ticket in participating in the upcoming tournament, where you have the
chance of becoming the Big Cheeze (potentially winning 600+ ETH).

##  **$2000 0x bounty**

Looking to build a decentralized marketplace for Cheeze Wizards? Start using
0x’s Launch Kit to be eligible for the 0x Bounty. Our good friends at 0x also
hosted a great [workshop](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QsfOFqe3P5Q)!

##  **$2000 Kyber Network bounty**

Liquidity for NFTs and assets are important! Look no further as our friends at
Kyber have a bounty for using their protocol for exchange. You can learn more
about the implementation from their
[workshop](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cgjObGRhQAQ).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*qSx4ZrwFxuZbPd7Q)

Cheeze Wizard’s developer page will be featuring winning hackathon projects

##  **Be featured on Cheeze Wizard’s website!**

We know that many of the projects will need some extra elbow grease in getting
Cheeze Wizard players to experience their apps. To help with that, we will
have a dedicated section in the main Cheeze Wizards website linking to the top
hackathon projects.

# Resources — Workshops and a community guide

## Cheeze Wizards Community Guide: Brand and Lore

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*W9woU7FcpJGbvzYoR7Zyrg.jpeg)

[Access the community guide
here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/u/2/d/1bK8yWTjkhNlM1w0-hfRhaStCeBxY8yEHI3fZGOP0EXo/edit?usp=sharing)

[> Cheeze Wizard’s Brand and Lore
Guide](https://docs.google.com/presentation/u/2/d/1bK8yWTjkhNlM1w0-hfRhaStCeBxY8yEHI3fZGOP0EXo/edit?usp=sharing)

##  **Cheeze Wizard: Team introduction and gameplay discussion**

##  **DAOstack shows us how to use Hacker’s Kit to create a DAO**

##  **Alchemy gives an overview of their API and how it can help developers**

##  **Using Kyber for your liquidity needs and how to build on Kyber Network**

##  **Launch your marketplace on 0x using Launch Kit within minutes**

##  **Predicting the price of cheese on Augur**

##  **Security/EVM security and common anti-patterns presented by Sigma
Prime**

# READ: Linda Xie’s tweet on blockchain gaming and Cheeze Wizard’s hackathon:

# Join the #hackathon channel in the Cheeze Wizard Discord server

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*MtIpm2eixkrDjGWp)

Cheeze Wizard’s Discord Channel <https://discord.gg/6RxgZrZ>

Our [Discord](https://discordapp.com/invite/6RxgZrZ) has been buzzing with
activity as of late.

  * If you’re curious to find out more about the projects join the #hackathon channel.
  * If you are looking for a hacker to join your team we have the #find-a-team channel.

Over 200+ registered developers and are working on some amazing projects.
We’re really excited to see what type of dapps you build for the CheezyVerse!

 **It’s not too late to signup for the Cheeze Wizards hackathon!** [Here‘s
everything you need to know to get
started](https://coinlist.co/build/cheezewizards).

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Dapper Labs](/dapperlabs?source=post_page-----
6ed1d3847283--------------------------------)

The serious business of fun and games on the blockchain

[Read more from Dapper Labs](/dapperlabs?source=post_page-----
6ed1d3847283--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Govern
NFT](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*zfR2yCwc9zsExsAB6-OozQ.png)](/@GovernNFT?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Govern NFT

](/@GovernNFT?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Equa Global Asks: How Does Your Firm Store It’s Crypto?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*GS6xGwVArrUb6Sj-.jpg)](/@GovernNFT/equa-
global-asks-how-does-your-firm-store-its-
crypto-9236963b54ca?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Andrew
Lee](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*tsDp3v91q60PEy0rwPmeUA.jpeg)](/@andrwlee?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Andrew Lee

](/@andrwlee?source=post_internal_links---------1----------------------------)

## STATE OF THE MARKET

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*uZ1w1vJ6xmPO3ms_)](/@andrwlee/state-
of-the-market-52dbb13bf889?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![metapool.near](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Z8BqrKKP1rbcLR-
AoPhrKQ.png)](/@meta_pool?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[metapool.near

](/@meta_pool?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[Meta Pool

](https://medium.com/meta-pool?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Get stNEAR directly from Aurora with Meta Pool

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*OV2RuJHUEe96UcRib2yPzQ.png)](/meta-
pool/get-stnear-directly-from-aurora-with-meta-
pool-7b0f847fa50e?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![E&S Group](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*AxFFlUFLkFa-
ZlDZ492ZTw.jpeg)](/@ellulschranz?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[E&S Group

](/@ellulschranz?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Getting to grips with cryptocurrency wallets.

](/@ellulschranz/getting-to-grips-with-cryptocurrency-
wallets-39986ba2d61f?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Fuet](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*_RPxnITVDtEEu81I.jpg)](/@fuetfuetsan?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Fuet

](/@fuetfuetsan?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Aavegotchi: Play to Earn (with fun little ghosts!)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Ca1Hl9p4hTPLb86PbhzmuQ.png)](/@fuetfuetsan/aavegotchi-
play-to-earn-with-fun-little-ghosts-cf2b7ae49576?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[[![BRING.FINANCE](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*BlYa_trU7ROEuoH0Y9MP9w.png)](/@bringfinance?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[BRING.FINANCE

](/@bringfinance?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Don’t Miss Our LP Staking on BSC!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*jai264wBDxvfKchH)](/@bringfinance/dont-
miss-our-lp-staking-on-bsc-b693bc1556fc?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Kommunitas](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*80tbsYxdhT5vlKX7A6o4LQ.png)](/@kommunitas?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Kommunitas

](/@kommunitas?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## New! Quarterly Revenue Sharing for KOM Private Partners.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*1DH5hAzTC8qB5WpBhDEKkQ.jpeg)](/@kommunitas/new-
quarterly-revenue-sharing-for-kom-private-partners-
ca142632b578?source=post_internal_links---------6----------------------------)

[[![bitcointidings](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*WGnrwrzy6XfIL8lZ6Xi3OQ.png)](/@bitcointidings?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[bitcointidings

](/@bitcointidings?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## US Treasury Launching Cryptocurrency Awareness Program

![US Treasury Launching Cryptocurrency Awareness
Campaign](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*YHPq8i4BhE9I8Nee)](/@bitcointidings/us-
treasury-launching-cryptocurrency-awareness-
program-59c87904a42?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----6ed1d3847283--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
6ed1d3847283--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
6ed1d3847283--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
6ed1d3847283--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
6ed1d3847283--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----6ed1d3847283--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----6ed1d3847283--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdapperlabs%2Fcw-
hackthon-6ed1d3847283&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Dapper
Labs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*4qrJW34TWRKo2UlCo9IqbQ.png)](/@hellodapper)

[

## Dapper Labs

](/@hellodapper)

800 Followers

The serious business of fun and games on the blockchain

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F92fd7014333&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdapperlabs%2Fcw-
hackthon-6ed1d3847283&newsletterV3=6544777e30d2&newsletterV3Id=92fd7014333&user=Dapper+Labs&userId=6544777e30d2&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Alessandro Botteon](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*bvtbOM-
JLH2Tv2Jv0chE8A.jpeg)](/@impssbl?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------51115594_fd83_4621_ab7a_cce6fcc87537-------)

[Alessandro Botteon

](/@impssbl?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
51115594_fd83_4621_ab7a_cce6fcc87537-------)

## Musess: the Launch

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*zd9T_YphyDRPXDfUnPOCcQ.jpeg)](/@impssbl/musess-
the-launch-d703da4531b8?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
51115594_fd83_4621_ab7a_cce6fcc87537-------)

[[![WacDonald's
Cryptopoly](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*6FVXrGNdnp2wu0bqdIIefg.png)](/@wacdonalds?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------51115594_fd83_4621_ab7a_cce6fcc87537-------)

[WacDonald's Cryptopoly

](/@wacdonalds?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
51115594_fd83_4621_ab7a_cce6fcc87537-------)

## Introducing Wacdonald’s Cryptopoly

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*DxssP5lBZ4ITj7XwBWdJbg.png)](/@wacdonalds/introducing-
wacdonalds-cryptopoly-bfe71114fef3?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------51115594_fd83_4621_ab7a_cce6fcc87537-------)

[[![Joe Royalty "The
Curator"](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*9enqA7w28r1B2k7o.jpg)](/@jdroyalty?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------51115594_fd83_4621_ab7a_cce6fcc87537-------)

[Joe Royalty "The Curator"

](/@jdroyalty?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
51115594_fd83_4621_ab7a_cce6fcc87537-------)

## SWAGGYLions Club (SLC)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*6GzZg5PUQggmmx-
FWZx9nA.png)](/@jdroyalty/swaggylions-club-slc-
bc1fcc19953f?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
51115594_fd83_4621_ab7a_cce6fcc87537-------)

[[![Lunur.io](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*O3BuOPhZOef4kbIdIEtafA.png)](/@lunur?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------51115594_fd83_4621_ab7a_cce6fcc87537-------)

[Lunur.io

](/@lunur?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
51115594_fd83_4621_ab7a_cce6fcc87537-------)

## About Lunur

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*FKSxu5odem5R2UfuqW1NoA.png)](/@lunur/about-
lunur-1c22a1432dc3?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
51115594_fd83_4621_ab7a_cce6fcc87537-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

