[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![New Horizons](/static/f946b878ffa545983a6d7bfeefdeaa40/2a43b/akasha-in-
cancun.jpg)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

## New Horizons

By [Mihai Alisie](/blog/author/mihai-alisie/)

·

November 14, 2017

Many, many things happened since our last update. Following our last alpha
release, we started working on an entirely new dapp, in parallel with a
complete redesign of the whole user experience. In other words, the sparse
updates were not caused by a lack of activity, quite the opposite. Now, after
much hard work, we are extremely happy to change gears and announce that
**[the signups for the AKASHA beta version are now
open!](https://akasha.world/)** \o/

### DEVCON 3: Strength in Numbers

[ ![AKASHA in Cancun](/static/267cc93c0146c0744c426399a41b0f45/1c72d/akasha-
team.jpg) ](/static/267cc93c0146c0744c426399a41b0f45/e1596/akasha-team.jpg)

The [DEVCON 3 event](https://blog.ethereum.org/2017/11/16/devcon3/) was our
second Ethereum conference participating as AKASHA, and it was _impressive_.
The sheer number of people present at the event was simply astonishing. We
couldn't really imagine what a group of ~2000 looked like before, but now we
can.

It is both comforting and awe-inspiring to experience the relatedness found in
shared interests, ideas, and projects with so many other like-minded people.

That feeling of "belonging" we are subconsciously longing for was overflowing
in the International Convention Center in Cancun during those four magical
days. What I was only daydreaming about in 2013-2014, as co-founder of
Ethereum, was **happening right in front of my eyes - a worldwide community of
people co-creating today a better Web of tomorrow.** Epic.

[ ![AKASHA DEVCON 3
Agenda](/static/dcbe17377cbdcd2a5e9681cba833b8f7/1c72d/devcon-agenda.jpg)
](/static/dcbe17377cbdcd2a5e9681cba833b8f7/ca222/devcon-agenda.jpg)

AKASHA was scheduled to close the epic DEVCON3 as **the last presentation on
the last day.** We were not exactly sure if this was a good thing, or if it
brought extra challenges associated with an audience that was tired after 4
days of great presentations. Little did we know!

Fast forwarding to November 4th, at 4:20 PM we were making the final
preparations for our presentation. The headset microphones were being
installed backstage and I was restarting the Keynote app "just in case".

This was the first time we were showcasing our progress in months, and it was
the biggest event we participated in as presenters. After an initial tech
hiccup (inevitably) we managed to get the presentation going, and the audience
was simply fantastic. For those of you that read these lines and were present
- THANK YOU, YOU ARE AWESOME!

[ ![DEVCON ON](/static/3fb490109557e5bb451b26230b0d6117/1c72d/devcon-on.jpg)
](/static/3fb490109557e5bb451b26230b0d6117/37fe4/devcon-on.jpg)

Words cannot explain the emotions overwhelming us. Those interested in
watching the presentation and the beta demo can find the video at the bottom
of this post, next to the beta signup link!

### A Peek Behind The Curtain: From Alpha To Beta And Beyond

[ ![DEVCON Stage](/static/e700c9d913fb2269f9dde77152fc5a44/1c72d/devcon-
stage.jpg) ](/static/e700c9d913fb2269f9dde77152fc5a44/d7f78/devcon-stage.jpg)

During the past ten months we have been focusing on the following:

  * Building a fully functional AKASHA web version with IPFS.js and Metamask
  * Improving the overall performance and stability of the new dapp
  * Designing and implementing a new UX/UI
  * Optimizing the Ethereum dapp architecture, gas footprint, and modularity for the next round of experiments
  * Brainstorming and experimenting with various token ideas in the search for a good starting point

The biggest challenge we faced, and still do face, is the nascent state of the
infrastructure on top of which we are building. Both Ethereum and IPFS are
very ambitious technologies seeking to push the boundaries of previous
experiments. These projects develop and evolve fast, but the documentation is
hard to be kept up to date and information on what "can be" and "cannot be" or
"how it should be" done is still scarce.

This is the side-effect of the fast-evolving nature of things; we have to
constantly remind ourselves that this is pioneering at its best, and we all
still have a lot to learn.

Although it can be seen as intimidating by some, for us it was liberating
because it pushed us into a trial-and-error-error-error mindset. There are no
"right" or "wrong" answers yet, and we'll probably learn along the way how we
can build something better.

Yet, at the same time, you also have to start "somewhere" and in our case it
meant designing a simple "publish flow" that combines Ethereum and IPFS in a
way that is actually "usable" through a user-friendly interface. For us, this
was the alpha release.

To give you an idea, the alpha version of the user interface took about 6
months of work to design (mostly in Keynote) and almost a year to implement in
code. Even if far from perfect, it offered us something "good enough" to spark
the interest of the Community. The beta redesign has been a work in progress
for 10 months now, with development moving in parallel. We believe that the
wait will be worth it!

On this note, you can find an example of a good lesson we learned and applied
in the beta with a big impact on the user experience - fetching IPFS
resources.

The classic "Freedom of Speech Status: Loading" you encountered so often in
the alpha:

[ ![Alpha Loading](/static/be077cb03e1f889186b85f17b40d60c0/1c72d/alpha-
load.jpg) ](/static/be077cb03e1f889186b85f17b40d60c0/72e01/alpha-load.jpg)

Lesson learned: fetching all IPFS resources at the same time is not ideal

[ ![Loading Map](/static/880242e1cf370ad005cef34ff00643be/1c72d/map-load.jpg)
](/static/880242e1cf370ad005cef34ff00643be/6e754/map-load.jpg)

Lesson applied: fetch the IPFS resources individually.

[ ![Beta Loading](/static/094ec4bc54ae8b1c7a3ee05b200b161f/1c72d/beta-
load1.jpg) ](/static/094ec4bc54ae8b1c7a3ee05b200b161f/24416/beta-load1.jpg)

TA-DA!

[ ![Beta Loading](/static/a4acbc4b92d1618247658b2ac0fb835b/1c72d/beta-
load2.jpg) ](/static/a4acbc4b92d1618247658b2ac0fb835b/86d28/beta-load2.jpg)

Aside from all the nice and shiny stuff, the elephant in the room is "how will
the infrastructure hold up with the added transaction and data volume
resulting from using AKASHA?". In the alpha, we almost reached 10,000
identities created. However, the UX and features were (intentionally) quite
limited. Plus, we were using a private Ethereum chain to keep things simple.

On the other hand, the beta was designed to make continued use a more
intuitive and enjoyable experience. This, combined with a Web version
accessible from "normal browsers" such as Chrome, will hopefully generate
enough activity to offer us a glimpse at further possible optimizations and
their implications.

The assumption, in this case, is that the more people who will try the beta,
the more clear the answers will become (through more data). On top of this, we
can then build better models and solutions. This is why for the beta, our
success will be measured in terms of transaction output and further
optimizations in anticipation of the AKASHA ONE (1.0) release on the main
Ethereum network.

Also, since the beta will be living on a public test network, we can begin
exploring the synergies with other projects from the ecosystem, with ENS being
just one simple yet meaningful example.

### Main Beta Mission: Pushing The Limits

[ ![Stress Testing](/static/bef3027601535c0d0b972cebaae39001/1c72d/devcon-
stage2.jpg) ](/static/bef3027601535c0d0b972cebaae39001/5f17e/devcon-
stage2.jpg)

The beta smart contracts have been deployed on the Rinkeby test network and
are undergoing intense tests at the moment. A big THANK YOU goes to [Péter
Szilágyi](https://twitter.com/peter_szilagyi) and the Ethereum Go team for all
the help to get things working!

**We invite everyone in the Community to join us in the beta release because
we need help with:**

  * Stress testing the new smart contracts architecture and security
  * Stress testing the carrying capacity of the Ethereum network and blockchain
  * Stress testing the carrying capacity of the IPFS network
  * Testing our first crypto economic assumptions & incentive structures
  * Testing the new information architecture and UX/UI
  * Testing the fully-functional AKASHA web version (IPFS.js and MetaMask)
  * Collecting feedback and formulating the main Ethereum chain deployment plan

Since one of the main goals of the beta is to stress test the infrastructure
and see how far can we take it, we could choose the number of users as a
metric with 1K, 5K, 10K, 20K, 30K ... 100K+ as milestones. It will all come
down to how much transactional output a decentralized social network with many
users will generate, and how well the Ethereum network can take it.

Even if the 100K milestone might seem a bit crazy, the current biggest
Ethereum communities are sizeable -
[r/ethereum](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum/) has almost 150K readers and
[r/ethtrader](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethtrader/) has over 100K readers.
There is definitely some overlap between the two subreddits, but the main idea
is that if we can engage the online Ethereum community to stress test Ethereum
itself, we might actually be able to do it - together.

If we can uncover insights and answers to questions such as "Should we
actively engage the Ethereum mining community for raising the gas limits in
anticipation of the main chain deployment?" and "What would be the gas limit
that allows AKASHA and the entire Ethereum ecosystem to comfortably coexist on
the same chain?" we think that we'll be well on our way to a successful
launch.

With this in mind, we invite everyone to [join us on our new Discord
channel](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ) while we build the necessary
tools to have the entire community organizing and chatting in AKASHA directly.

### Highlight: The AETH Crypto Economic Experiment

After long discussions and thought experiments, we chose the starting point
for our token exploration. A big 'thank you' is in order for everyone who
participated in the conversations that culminated in this first token
iteration!

[ ![States Overview](/static/80267c182a5d2645e3a8205ea7831f11/1c72d/token-
states2.jpg) ](/static/80267c182a5d2645e3a8205ea7831f11/b4de7/token-
states2.jpg)

The AETH token is currently modeled to have multiple states, with the token
being transferable in some states and non-transferable in others. The
introduction of states in the token brings with it, in theory, a system of
checks and delays that should alleviate some of the problems associated with
manipulation and Sybil attacks.

Here is a brief AETH states overview, followed by a short explanation for
each:

  * **AETH** is a transferable, ERC 20 compatible token, living on the Rinkeby test network
  * **Mana** is non-transferable and is obtained by locking AETH for X time at Y ratio (Manafied AETH). The Mana amount regenerates every day for as long as AETH remains locked, in a "Manafied" state.
  * **Essence** is non-transferable and is obtained through positive contributions. It can be burned to mint new AETH into existence. When people use their Mana to vote on artifacts, the authors can collect the burned Mana as Essence.
  * **Karma** is not a state, but rather a score tracking user contributions. For every unit of Essence collected, the user receives also Karma. Karma is used for defining milestones, thresholds and unlocking functionality within the dapp.

##### Aether

AETH (Aether) implements an ERC 20 token interface and has the standard
features found in most ERC 20 tokens, but with a twist - AETH can be
"locked"/"staked" to generate Mana. The AETH can also be "unlocked", after a
predefined delay associated with this action, at the cost of Mana.

Important note: When using AKASHA, the users will not consume their AETH. The
interactions consume Mana, which regenerates daily.

##### Mana

Mana acts as a crypto fuel inside the AKASHA ecosystem, and is required for
various interactions in the dapp (publishing, commenting, voting, etc). The
user's AETH balance is not affected by interactions, only Mana and ETH (for
gas) is spent.

The Mana is regenerated every 24 hours, with the unused mana from the previous
round being lost. The artifacts created by burning Mana can, in turn, generate
Essence from the upvotes of other users.

##### Essence

The Essence can be consumed to mint new AETH tokens into existence if certain
thresholds defined as a conditions at token protocol level are met.

When people burn their Mana to vote on content, the authors can collect the
burned Mana as Essence. The users voting with the majority in the initial
round of voting (deciding the quality of an artifact) are also rewarded with
Essence equal to the Mana they burned to vote.

##### Karma

Karma is a form of proto-reputation and reflects the user's positive
contributions associated with collecting Essence. The Karma does not decrease
when Essence is converted to AETH.

Karma also unlocks features inside the AKASHA dapp depending on the score of
the user. One example is the ability to create and curate public lists:
everyone can create and curate their local lists as bookmarks or collections,
but only those that have actively contributed can create a public list. This
tries to ensure higher-quality curation lists.

Finally, Karma is also used in Formula K to determine the Mana costs for
interactions within AKASHA - the users with higher Karma scores will burn less
Mana for interactions such as publishing, commenting and so on. This will
gradually decrease the Mana costs for the most active users, thus increasing
the number of interactions possible with the same amount of AETH locked.

Below you can find an overview of the flow between the states above and how
they interact:

[ ![Token States Flow](/static/dfea3a9b854e83951f25440bb42a6362/1c72d/aeth-
flow.jpg) ](/static/dfea3a9b854e83951f25440bb42a6362/e1596/aeth-flow.jpg)

More information can be found in our presentation and the full model will be
released on the AKASHA beta dapp, which takes us to the next topic.

### Crowdsourced Crypto Economics: Towards Token 2.0

[
![TokensTokensTokens](/static/036dda924816d5a270d43a96a7404ffd/1c72d/stargate-
blueprint.jpg) ](/static/036dda924816d5a270d43a96a7404ffd/f56c3/stargate-
blueprint.jpg)

This first (and presumably imperfect) theoretical design of AETH will be live
tested with real participants in the beta dapp release. The token architecture
and future direction will be discussed openly on the AKASHA dapp under various
tags such as #akasha #bugbounty #CryptoOlympics #AETHresearch etc.

To give you an example of how this works in the actual application, the user
would simply add a tag column and then they would be up-to-date with
everything posted in that particular stream of information.

[ ![Adding a Tag](/static/f3ba27e6207f1e976d0eb688bd4d8e13/1c72d/tag-add1.jpg)
](/static/f3ba27e6207f1e976d0eb688bd4d8e13/3e5f7/tag-add1.jpg)

The entries in this tag can be used as improvement proposals or counter-
proposals, whereas the comments can serve as the debate arena. The voting
mechanism will allow the best ideas to organically bubble up from the
Community, and will thus help to identify them.

When promising ideas are identified, the next stage would be closer analysis
and an implementation in code to see how the concept holds up in practice.

[ ![Tag added](/static/8651fd58db131dc3d7ff74529059a62b/1c72d/tag-add2.jpg)
](/static/8651fd58db131dc3d7ff74529059a62b/b30eb/tag-add2.jpg)

In the process, we will gather real data and feedback in a test-driven
environment in order to gain insights into what makes a great social network
token work and, most importantly, why?

Together we think we can find some really satisfying answers to these
questions!

Also, **to add a little extra incentive to the mix, IF a token 2.0 will result
from this experiment we are contemplating allowing ONLY the Ethereum keys
created in the AKASHA alpha and beta dapps to participate in the crowdsale.
This means that only the people that have helped with testing the AKASHA alpha
and beta dapps will be included in the AKASHA ONE token genesis event.**

**This way we would reward the people testing the application with the right
to participate in the main Ethereum network genesis, and even those that are
seeking just to trade or flip the token(s) will end up contributing toward
improving our code through their simple participation in the beta dapp.**

We're looking forward to hearing the community's thoughts on this!

### The End? Nope, Just Another Beginning!

[ ![Seatbelts
On!](/static/47558461ffa0a4cd8ee17ce027d0649b/1c72d/Dragonv2.jpg)
](/static/47558461ffa0a4cd8ee17ce027d0649b/d9c39/Dragonv2.jpg)

> "The paths are not to be found, but made. And the activity of making them
> changes both the maker and the destination." \--- John Schaar

The unknown is part of every adventure.

Even if we don't have all the answers yet, we believe that together we can
reach new, emergent, shared understandings. Just one short glimpse into the
future can offer us enough information to at least point us in the direction
in which we should take our next steps.

If one thing is clear, it is that no one has all the answers in this Crypto
Adventure.

Not even Vitalik.

We are all winging it as we go, to the best of our abilities. It's just that
some people are winging it better than others.

Through this lens, people that are successfully building things in this space
are applying a hacker mindset for solving problems as they appear. This
process is far from what people usually understand when we say "expert".

That being said, I strongly believe that this particular mindset/skill/talent
is admirable on its own, without dressing it as something else -- some sort of
higher state that is out of reach for mere mortals. We all have it in us.

It would be refreshing to see more people approaching things from this
perspective rather than trying to pose as "experts" and other fancy self-
appointed labels. It would be less intimidating for someone looking to get
involved in this space.

"If they are winging it, maybe I can wing it too!" vs. "Oh, they are
blockchain experts and I am just a **__** _. Why even bother?"

At least this is what we want to achieve with our Crypto Economic Olympics -
invite as much cross-disciplinary collaboration as possible in the search of
truly groundbreaking ideas, no matter if they arise from "blockchain experts"
(whatever that means), academicians, musicians, journalists or a gamer's mind.

The more diverse the group searching for answers, the better our chances of
uncovering [entire flocks of black
swans](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_swan_theory). The collective
intelligence of the group increases with diversity, and one thousand half-
baked ideas can come together into something completely new.

We don't expect it to happen overnight, and it will probably take many
iterations in the search for the best possible solutions. Nonetheless, when
that moment of insight is reached, the collective mind will identify it and
nothing will ever be the same again.

We will reach new levels of understanding and possibilities.

Two years After Ethereum, "How far can we take it?!" is still a question
without an answer.

**Join us in the beta and[let's find out together!](https://akasha.world/)**

[News](/blog/category/news/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2017/11/14/new-
horizons)

