[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![New deals for
science!](/static/d4d9ff051ef49266c0cfc9a3e1f42096/e4796/BCN_Harbour.png)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Research](/blog/category/research/)

[Holons](/blog/category/holons/)

[Barcelona](/blog/category/barcelona/)

## New deals for science!

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/), [Andrei
Sambra](/blog/author/andrei-sambra/), [Phoebe Tickell](/blog/author/phoebe-
tickell/), [Theo Beutel](/blog/author/theo-beutel/) & [Sönke
Bartling](/blog/author/sonke-bartling/)

·

May 23, 2019

On May 10-11th, the AKASHA Hub Barcelona hosted a “STEPS” workshop.
[“STEPS](https://twitter.com/blockchainsteps) is a grassroots, non-profit
series of events focusing on the exploration of blockchain-backed applications
for science, technology, education, publishing, and society” co-organized by
“Blockchain for Science” a think tank founded by [Sönke
Bartling](https://www.blockchainforscience.com/). It is not the first time
that the AKASHA team had been in contact with the “Blockchain for Science”
crowd: Back in 2018 we hosted several projects (among them were:
[DEIP](https://deip.world/), [Science
Matters](https://www.sciencematters.io/), [TIB
](https://www.tib.eu/en/research-development/open-science/) for a week-long
gathering at our former Bucharest Hub.

[ ![Bucharest
2018](/static/6637f72f713bb60738bf9fb30284e9a9/fcda8/Bucharest_2018.png)
](/static/6637f72f713bb60738bf9fb30284e9a9/29beb/Bucharest_2018.png) _Back to
summer 2018: The AKASHA team hosts scientists and Blockchain for Science
projects in Bucharest._

This time around our now fully-operational [AKASHA Barcelona
Hub](https://akasha.org/hub-bcn/) served as the venue hosting several exciting
projects dedicated to apply blockchain technologies for science and knowledge
creation. We’ve included a number of pictures from the event in this post, so
you can see what went on for yourself!

[
![CryptoRenaissance](/static/c98ab239fa270938d712954a3fbe168b/1c72d/CryptoRenaissance.jpg)
](/static/c98ab239fa270938d712954a3fbe168b/d2602/CryptoRenaissance.jpg)
_Crypto-Rennaisance @Akasha Hub Barcelona: Phoebe Tickell, Sönke Bartling, and
Theo Beutel in front of a copy of "Future Cryptoeconomics" featuring Vitalik
Buterin._

## Why are we focussing on collaboration and communication in science?

Despite increasing innovation in the field of scientific communication (see
for instance [eLife](https://elifesciences.org/labs/ad58f08d/introducing-
elife-s-first-computationally-reproducible-article)) the majority of the
scientific community still considers commercial scientific publishers as an
inevitably-required third party that ensures “quality” and “reproducibility”
in science. This is despite increasing evidence of the poor outcomes and
strong biases that result from the reliance of the centuries-old publishing
businesses on a format of delivering information that once had been defined by
the printing press. Today, modern web technologies offer entirely new means
for the scientific community to self-organize. Scientists could
collaboratively create up-to-date information and reach consensus on specific
topics in a much more rapid way. The online encyclopedia
[Wikipedia](https://www.wikipedia.org/) that has replaced its printed
relatives almost entirely, and the fact that it has been demonstrated to fare
similarly or even exceed those in [quality and in being always up to
date](https://blog.wikimedia.org/2012/08/02/seven-years-after-nature-pilot-
study-compares-wikipedia-favorably-to-other-encyclopedias-in-three-
languages/), and decentralized in its documentation just serves as the most
prominent example of the possibility of there being a better way of doing
things.

[ ![Pepo
Andrei](/static/c287d5cb9d4cc8a2992f856641f7cc8b/fcda8/Pepo_Andrei.png)
](/static/c287d5cb9d4cc8a2992f856641f7cc8b/6e29b/Pepo_Andrei.png) _Pepo Ospina
and Andrei Sambra discussing Hyperdata and uprtcl.io_

It might come as a surprise, that it is only about 50 years since scientific
journals adopted formal [“peer-review” mechanisms](https://sci-
hub.tw/10.1086/700070).

Over this period, scientific publishers have begun to operate less with the
primary goal to serve the scientific community in mind, through the
dissemination of scientific knowledge, instead acting as gatekeepers,
operating selectively, and extracting [increasing profits from public
institutions](https://www.theguardian.com/science/2017/jun/27/profitable-
business-scientific-publishing-bad-for-science). Today metrics, such as impact
factors and journal prestige dominate many scientific fields. Peer-review does
not offer the quality control it claims, while publishers slow the
dissemination of information massively. As MIT Media Lab Director, Joi Ito
states: [“We learn more and more about less and
less”](https://jods.mitpress.mit.edu/pub/designandscience?version=406cdc95-4664-45f1-a427-1007c22f99cf).
With reproducibility rates dropping, and the continued accumulation of
essentially wrong and misleading information upon which we often build our new
hypotheses, we may have already entered the dark ages of science once more (I
recommend [Thomas
Kuhn’s](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Structure_of_Scientific_Revolutions)
thesis on the Phlogiston theory in that context).

The teams we hosted in Barcelona focussed on different aspects of disrupting
this industry and creating new, open, and interoperable ways of knowledge
sharing on the distributed Web. Their efforts towards the creation of open,
collaborative platforms for knowledge exchange, cooperation, scientific
funding, and governance resonates well with the aims and values of the AKASHA
Foundation, which aims to nurture projects that can unlock individuals'
potential and collective intelligence.

[ ![DAO Team](/static/3748df8bb24ec207d1bfee748bb4ffde/1c72d/DAO_Team.jpg)
](/static/3748df8bb24ec207d1bfee748bb4ffde/d2602/DAO_Team.jpg) _Buzzing AKASHA
Barcelona Hub, despite international and local strikes. The DAO Team
Francesca, Theo & Kate in the front left on Friday afternoon._

Pepo Ospina and Guillem Cordoba from uprtcl.io presented _ptrcl and
[collective.one](https://www.collectiveone.org/#/landing) \- a collaborative
platform for content creation and sharing that permits participants to reuse
and recombine content by any user and any platform and enable a governance
over content created by multiple authors.

Notably, the same data can be observed through different perspectives that can
assume different ”contexts.” Following Pepo, Andrei Sambra presented
“[Hyperdata](https://akasha.org/blog/2019/03/04/bridging-networks-with-
hyperdata)," a protocol currently under development at the AKASHA Foundation.
It provides a storage & network-agnostic data model and schema(s) for linking
data across different networks and platforms. Through Hyperdata, a piece of
data hosted on the Web could be linked to another one hosted on the
[InterPlanetary File System](https://ipfs.io/), which in turn may be linked to
data hosted on any network, and even on your local file system (file://).

Both presentations resonated a lot with people in the audience, especially the
link between Hyperdata and those working on the _Protocol became apparent. The
reason is that we all share a common vision about storing data in a network-
agnostic way. When it comes to the point where one needs to choose an
underlying data model uprtcl.io were thinking of using their own JSON schema.
However, during the discussion the group realized that it can all be stored in
the payload of a Hyperdata document, while at the same time taking advantage
of the signature specific to Hyperdata documents.

Adrià Massanet took us on an exciting journey into cryptography focussing on
zkSNARKs. We learned about the challenges in the field - he introduced us
through examples in two ZK-SNARK toolboxes on Ethereum:
[SnarkJs/Circom](https://www.github.com/iden3) and
[Zokrates](https://github.com/Zokrates/ZoKrates). The concept of the CODA
blockchain Adrià mentioned is cool: the validity of the Blockchain is proofed
through small zk-SNARKS - effectively solving the blockchain size problem -
which might contribute to scalability as well. However, while CODA seems to
run smoothly, Adrià reminded us that it will be hard to find knowledgeable
people that could actually establish that the zksbarj algorithms are really
doing what they are supposed to do...

[ ![Adria](/static/71a03142a15ca1f3bc8ec54c8b0d6b75/fcda8/Adria.png)
](/static/71a03142a15ca1f3bc8ec54c8b0d6b75/7a3d6/Adria.png) _Adrià presenting
zkSNARKs principles._

[Daniel Shavit](https://twitter.com/cryptodani) from [Pando
Network](https://github.com/pandonetwork/pando) outlined the challenges in the
current creative industries and how the infrastructure of the Pando Network,
which is creating DApps that operate on the underlying Pando protocol, a
distributed version control system (VCS) based on IPFS, Aragon, and Ethereum
could help.

A specific focus during our discussions was then on academic publishing and
how it could be possible to create Decentralized Autonomous Organizations
(DAOs) for science publishing on Pando. To this end Pando is proposing the
[Contributive Commons License](https://medium.com/pando-network/the-pando-
network-ff385f2be05a). Following the presentations in the morning we were
pleased to host [Francesca Pick](https://twitter.com/francescapick), and [Kate
Beecroft](https://twitter.com/greaterthxn) from
[DAOstack](https://daostack.io) as well as [Theo
Beutel](https://twitter.com/theobtl) from
[DAOincubator](http://daoincubator.org) to take us on a co-creative journey to
explore three DAO concepts for science funding, publishing, and education
respectively.

[ ![Dani](/static/71c93b255ebcbdb8c42b27c325821364/fcda8/Dani.png)
](/static/71c93b255ebcbdb8c42b27c325821364/d7ceb/Dani.png) _Dani presenting
for Pando._

In the blockchain space, DAOs are one of the most discussed concepts but they
are also among the least matured. According to [Jack
Laing](https://twitter.com/jackalaing), a DAO is an organization [“without any
central point of control”](https://orgtech.substack.com/about) that is
[“resistant to interference”](https://orgtech.substack.com/about) and makes
use of [“the collective input of its
stakeholders](https://orgtech.substack.com/about).” Note that these are
normative statements which do not specify how such outcomes may be reached. In
a way, the term ‘DAO’ is an umbrella term for any (existing or future)
solution that is capable of combining blockchains and their objective
consensus with subjective consensus through human coordination, thereby
providing an interface to the real world.

Such interfaces are highly anticipated and, once functional and mature, could
be applied to a variety of use cases in science and research where a
transition from centralized to a decentralization of power is deemed
desirable. However, the devil really is in the details which is why the
workshop used [‘DAO
Kitchen’](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1L5yJUZ5TH5ZMRYbIWQF2OKsreRz8_zU5),
a template by Felipe Duarte, to design a DAO bottom-up based on problem
statements and goal setting.

Two DAO concepts enjoyed particularly great popularity: a publishing DAO, and
a funding DAO. The former aims at disinter-mediating journals to remove high
access barriers, inefficient processes, and opaque decision making. Such a DAO
could connect to a public, tamper-proof, file-hosting service, such as IPFS,
and crowdsource the curation process of papers into journals. The participants
also proposed to combine liberal reusage with inherited attribution.

The concept of a funding DAO focused on reducing bureaucratic friction in
science funding and providing additional incentives for useful research
activities. During the workshop, this concept was narrowed down to a quite
particular problem context: the replication crisis. A DAO that allocates funds
only for replication studies could dynamically adjust to the demand for
replication and the supply of reputable researchers and thereby significantly
improve science compared to today where replication is rarely as appealing to
scholars as novel research.

Despite limited time, the workshop resulted in multiple, remarkably-elaborate
DAO concepts which are now taken onwards by the teams and may soon even become
reality as part of an experimental trial.

[ ![Francesca Kate
Theo](/static/adeb7c35756edfcf3a9b9a8808ce2301/fcda8/Francesca_Kate_Theo.png)
](/static/adeb7c35756edfcf3a9b9a8808ce2301/b5c21/Francesca_Kate_Theo.png) _Our
DAO experts Francesca, Kate and Theo._

The second day focussed on hands-on applications in scientific funding for
collaborative research. Sönke Bartling introduced the dire state of the
current scientific funding models, how complicated grant-writing procedures
actually hamper scientific progress and waste massive amounts of a researchers
resources (by one assessment the cost of writing scientific grant applications
is equal to or exceeds even the amount of funds awarded.) On this topic we
also received remote support through the contributions of by [Prof. Stefan
Krauss](https://www.med.uio.no/imb/english/people/aca/stefankr/index.html),
the Institute of Basic Medical Sciences at the University of Oslo, and Lambert
Heller Head of the Open Science Lab at the Leibniz Information Centre for
Science and Technology.

An exciting concept was introduced by [Sönke
Bartling](https://twitter.com/soenkeba), who suggested to create “new deals on
data.” These could provide new ways of data handling, privacy, and data value,
while making data available that is currently unused. Data handling is
distributed away from one single entity to many; and smart contracts can be
used to provably constrain the access to the data (e.g. respecting privacy).
Token economies may create novel incentive structures that improve the sharing
of data and quality assurance. Think of it as bringing the computation to the
data instead of leaking the data to data processors.

[ ![Soenke](/static/7cfd1a7fdfe77b5fadde39fb6eae95f1/1c72d/Soenke.jpg)
](/static/7cfd1a7fdfe77b5fadde39fb6eae95f1/d2602/Soenke.jpg) _Sönke Bartling
on "New deals on data"_

[David Bovill](https://twitter.com/fortyfoxes), inventor, amongst other
amazing projects, of the concept behind-blockchain backed
[Plantoids](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plantoid) and experimenter with
[Liquid Democracy](http://parliamentofthings.org/view/welcome-visitors),
currently also engaged with [DEIPworld](https://deip.world/) outlined his
vision of a “governance journal,” which would be backed by a three-tiered
system focusing initially around public, open deliberation, followed by a
transparent, evidence-driven, and decentralized peer-reviewed consensus
process that should be embedded in any decision-making process.

[ ![David
Phoebe](/static/1e0ae4ab481cc431f7cec61d57cdef24/1c72d/David_Phoebe.jpg)
](/static/1e0ae4ab481cc431f7cec61d57cdef24/ac1dc/David_Phoebe.jpg) _Phoebe
Tickell and David Bovill debating on new means of governance for scientific
organizations._

The question of how we could govern science differently is a topic that has
been under-explored and researched. Thinking about how the public may be able
to bring a say into deciding what tax-funded research focuses on is one such
capacity that could be introduced using participatory or liquid democracy
voting systems.

Offering researchers platforms for deliberation and decision making together
is also hugely exciting - even existing off-chain platforms such as
[Loomio](https://www.loomio.org). So much research goes on in silos and making
better use of tools and platforms that encourage communication, collective
governance, and collective intelligence to emerge could completely change how
global-scale research is coordinated and executed. Labs could potentially
collaborate together in multi-stakeholder experimentation and discovery. The
potential exponential impact on research and scope could be huge. [Phoebe
Tickell](https://twitter.com/solarpunk_girl), previously researcher in
synthetic biology at Imperial College London and now a researcher and
consultant in distributed governance, contributed viewpoints from existing
distributed governance experiments such as [Enspiral](https://enspiral.com/)
and community members of the [DGOV community](https://dgov.foundation/).

[Jens Ducrée](http://www.ducree.net/), Professor of Microsystems in the School
of Physical Sciences at [Dublin City University (DCU)](https://www.dcu.ie/)
advocated to begin with the implementation of experiments right away. Tapping
into the to date underused potential of many laboratories, including also bio-
hacklabs for collaborative projects at the interface between engineering and
biomedical sensing devices was explored. In fact resources both from academic
labs as well as “hack-labs” could be brought together using DAO-like
governance mechanisms. Microfabrication, bioengineering, and lab
automatization and miniaturization that already today apply mature digital
planning and simulation tools could be in fact a powerful test bed to explore
how a new generation of scientists could use peer-to-peer collaboration,
funding among and acknowledge idea givers and even citizens in the maker space
for the diversity and value of their contributions to science.

[ ![Jens](/static/0b9abe3631404c9221f8894038109f30/1c72d/Jens.jpg)
](/static/0b9abe3631404c9221f8894038109f30/f537d/Jens.jpg) _Prof. Jens Ducrée
of[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection), Dublin City University,
Ireland._

The Web in fact was [born](https://akasha.org/blog/2019/03/06/akasha-at-cern)
as a means to improve the communication and coordination among scientists. In
the wake of the current “social media” crisis, the [collective time wasted
daily globally](https://akasha.org/blog/2019/05/03/diving-into-the-oceans-of-
time-metamorphosis-part2) this seems hard to imagine. With small groups such
as the one that just met in Barcelona that are tirelessly working towards new,
privacy-preserving and valuable means of creating, collecting, and sharing
knowledge there is hope we may get this back on track. The workshop ended with
several attendees arranging for follow ups and hands on trials of DAOs and new
means of scientific communication. AKASHA is excited to be part of these early
experiments and will be reporting on these next steps in future blog posts.

[Link](https://zenodo.org/communities/steps) to presentations hosted on
[ZENODO](https://zenodo.org/).

[ ![GoodBye
Hub](/static/f4ae2b424daa5a3c1990291d2086c9a7/1c72d/GoodBye_Hub.jpg)
](/static/f4ae2b424daa5a3c1990291d2086c9a7/d2602/GoodBye_Hub.jpg) _Goodbye
Barcelona!_

[News](/blog/category/news/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Research](/blog/category/research/)

[Holons](/blog/category/holons/)

[Barcelona](/blog/category/barcelona/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2019/05/23/AKASHAHubBCN-
Blockchain-for-Science)

