[ ![NuCypher](https://blog.nucypher.com/content/images/2019/03/NuCypher-blu-
whi.png) ](https://blog.nucypher.com)

  * [Blog](https://blog.nucypher.com/)
  * [Website](https://www.nucypher.com/)
  * [Documentation](https://docs.nucypher.com/en/latest/)
  * [GitHub](https://github.com/nucypher)

[ ](https://twitter.com/nucypher "Twitter")

Subscribe

# NuCypher WorkLock Update

  * [ ![MacLane Wilkison](/content/images/size/w100/2019/05/IMG_8077.jpg) ](/author/maclane/)

#### [MacLane Wilkison](/author/maclane/)

Oct 5, 2020 • 1 min read

![NuCypher WorkLock Update](/content/images/size/w2000/2020/10/image0.jpg)

Thank you for participating in the NuCypher WorkLock!

In total, **353,913 ETH** (>$125M USD equivalent) was locked in the WorkLock
smart contract by **2,011 nodes**. CoinList escrowed 147,465 ETH on behalf of
3,685 participants and will be running 8 nodes on the network.  
  
This result is a strong statement of support and demonstrates the community's
desire to stake NU and run nodes. Thanks to you, NuCypher will be one of the
largest and most decentralized networks as measured by the number of nodes
upon mainnet launch.

### What's next?

The target for mainnet launch is **October 15**. Over the next two weeks,
stakers and node operators will be finalizing their preparations.  
  
Once the contracts are activated on October 15, you'll be able to `claim` your
WorkLock NU and `bond` it to a worker node (if you used CoinList, this will be
done automatically on your behalf).

### Join the community

We'd also like to invite you to join our community channels and engage with
us, the network, and other Stakers.

  * [Telegram](https://t.me/nucypher)
  * [Telegram Announcements](https://t.me/nucypher_alerts)
  * [Russian Language Telegram](https://t.me/nucypherRu)
  * [Chinese Language Telegram](https://t.me/nucypherCh)
  * [Development Discord](https://discord.com/invite/7rmXa3S)
  * [NuCypher Twitter](https://twitter.com/nucypher)

If you are a developer with an idea for a Dapp or use case you'd like to build
on the network, we'd especially love to hear from you (our Discord is the best
place for technical discussion).  
  
Welcome to the NuCypher Network community!

## Sign up for more like this.

Enter your email Subscribe

[ ![Developer Update - Abiotic Alice and DKG \(October
2021\)](/content/images/size/w600/2021/10/2021-10-13-10.46.21.jpg)
](/developer-update-october-2021/)

[

## Developer Update - Abiotic Alice and DKG (October 2021)

NuCypher's proxy re-encryption (PRE) service is leveling up. Recently, the
demand for access-conditioned content in Web3 has exploded: subscriptions,
streaming, private NFTs, NFTs as access tokens, the list goes on. Many of
those are building on NuCypher (soon Threshold!) and proxy re-encryption. For
example: Masterfile is building an enterprise NFT

](/developer-update-october-2021/)

  * [ ![MacLane Wilkison](/content/images/size/w100/2019/05/IMG_8077.jpg) ](/author/maclane/)

[MacLane Wilkison](/author/maclane/) Oct 13, 2021 • 3 min read

[

## NuCypher Community Update - September 2021

Once a month we'll be putting out community updates in the format of team
member interviews. September's update is an interview NuCypher's CTO, David
Nuñez.

](/september-nu-community-update/)

  * [ ![Ryan Caruso](/content/images/size/w100/2020/12/IMG_5522.JPG) ](/author/ryan/)

[Ryan Caruso](/author/ryan/) Sep 17, 2021 • 13 min read

[

## NuCypher + Keep: KEaNU AMA, Hosted by Staking Hub

Hey NuCypher and Keep community, here is the transcribed copy of the AMA
hosted by Figment's Staking Hub. Thanks to the hosts, the Nu + Keep team, and
those who asked questions from the community.

](/nucypher-keep-keanu-ama-hosted-by-staking-hub/)

  * [ ![Ryan Caruso](/content/images/size/w100/2020/12/IMG_5522.JPG) ](/author/ryan/)

[Ryan Caruso](/author/ryan/) Jun 28, 2021 • 9 min read

[NuCypher](https://blog.nucypher.com) (C) 2022

  * [Telegram](https://t.me/nucypher)
  * [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/7rmXa3S)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/nucypher)

[Powered by Ghost](https://ghost.org/)

