[ Woobull ](https://woobull.com)

  * [About](https://woobull.com/about/)
  * [Charts](http://charts.woobull.com/)
  * [Articles](https://woobull.com/)
  * [→ Research](https://woobull.com/tag/research/)
  * [→ Infographics](https://woobull.com/tag/infographic/)
  * [→ Humour](https://woobull.com/tag/humour/)
  * [→ Bitcoin](https://woobull.com/tag/bitcoin/)
  * [→ Markets](https://woobull.com/tag/markets/)
  * [→ Dataviz](https://woobull.com/tag/data-visualisation/)
  * [→ Altcoins](https://woobull.com/tag/altcoins/)
  * [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNSawUAJPtGqnhpucPqdDrw)

[ ](https://twitter.com/woonomic "Twitter")

Subscribe

[Signals](https://woobull.com/tag/signals/)

# NVT Signal, a new trading indicator to pick tops and bottoms

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

#### [Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/)

Feb 11, 2018 • 2 min read

[NVT Ratio](https://woobull.com/introducing-nvt-ratio-bitcoins-pe-ratio-use-
it-to-detect-bubbles/) is a new valuation indicator that I introduced last
year based on network fundamentals, namely value flowing through the
blockchain.

I was delighted to find [Dmitry Kalichki](https://twitter.com/Kalichkin)
created [a much more responsive variation](https://medium.com/cryptolab/https-
medium-com-kalichkin-rethinking-nvt-ratio-2cf810df0ab0) which I've been
calling [NVT Signal](http://charts.woobull.com/bitcoin-nvt-signal/).

## What is NVT Signal?

Standard NVT Ratio is simply the Network Valuation divided by the Transaction
Value flowing through the blockchain and then smoothed using a moving average.
What Dimitry did was to apply the moving average just to the volatile
Transactions component only without smoothing the already stable Network
Valuation component.

This produces a much more responsive chart. Responsive enough to use as a
trading indicator.

This is probably the first trading indicator to use blockchain data instead of
the basic price and volume data coming in from exchanges.

## Using NVT Signal

For BTC, any level above 150 is in the overbought zone, indicative of a market
top...  
![nvt-levels-overbought](http://images.woobull.com/2018-02-11-nvt-signal/nvt-
levels-overbought.png)

...and levels below 45 tends to be oversold...

![nvt-levels-oversold](http://images.woobull.com/2018-02-11-nvt-signal/nvt-
levels-oversold.png)

## Calling market tops accurately

Being in the overbought zone doesn't tell us exactly when the market is about
to pop. However by adding support trendlines on the signal, we can call the
tops quite accurately.

Here's the tops to the last three BTC bubbles accurately foretold by NVT
Signal + trendline technical analysis...

![nvt-trend-tops-2013-2014](http://images.woobull.com/2018-02-11-nvt-
signal/nvt-trend-tops-2013-2014.png)

![nvt-trend-tops-2017](http://images.woobull.com/2018-02-11-nvt-signal/nvt-
trend-tops-2017.png)

We should be aware that calling market tops has been one of the most elusive
things for a trader.

Note I'm drawing these trendlines above in zones when the levels are above 150
(long range overbought). We can also do trendlines below the 150 levels to
pick local maximums.

## Calling market bottoms accurately

Similarly we can use trendlines to pick bottoms accurately...  
![nvt-trend-bottoms-2017](http://images.woobull.com/2018-02-11-nvt-signal/nvt-
trend-bottoms-2017.png)

I left you with this chart as this is where BTC is today. The NVT Signal is
picking we've bottomed.

## Where can I get this chart?

For the time being, I've put a live chart of NVT Signal in [Woobull
Charts](http://charts.woobull.com/bitcoin-nvt-signal/).

For the future, I'm working on a new project called Fomonomics which will
bring in a whole array of off-exchange data into view for traders and
investors. Watch this space.

## Sign up for more like this.

Enter your email Subscribe

[

## Supply Shock, predicting price by quantifying intent to buy and sell

IntroductionIn any market, price is driven by demand and supply. This is a
fundamental. The most obvious way of seeing this is in the bid and asks
between buyers and sellers. A more nuanced way would be to wave a magic wand
and gauge the intent of investors before the

](/quantifying-supply-shock/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Aug 10, 2021 • 4 min read

[

## The two types of Altcoins, an investor's view

This is a thread on altcoins, first published on Twitter. Altcoins are
nuanced. We have: Protocol coinsUtility tokensSecurity tokensNon-fungible
tokensBut to an investor, there's only 2 types. Oscillators and Degenerators.
You can spot them on this chart of the entire market. The vast majority of
alt-coins are Degenerators. Their price

](/the-two-types-of-altcoins-an-investors-view/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Nov 7, 2019 • 2 min read

[

## Introducing the Difficulty Ribbon, signaling the best times to buy Bitcoin

Introducing the Bitcoin Difficulty Ribbon. When the ribbon compresses, or
flips negative, these are the best times to buy Bitcoin. The ribbon consists
of simple moving averages on mining difficulty so we can easily see the rate
of change in difficulty. How it the Difficulty Ribbon worksThis visualisation
of network

](/introducing-the-difficulty-ribbon-the-best-times-to-buy-bitcoin/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Aug 1, 2019 • 2 min read

[Woobull](https://woobull.com) (C) 2022

[Powered by Ghost](https://ghost.org/)

