[ Woobull ](https://woobull.com)

  * [About](https://woobull.com/about/)
  * [Charts](http://charts.woobull.com/)
  * [Articles](https://woobull.com/)
  * [→ Research](https://woobull.com/tag/research/)
  * [→ Infographics](https://woobull.com/tag/infographic/)
  * [→ Humour](https://woobull.com/tag/humour/)
  * [→ Bitcoin](https://woobull.com/tag/bitcoin/)
  * [→ Markets](https://woobull.com/tag/markets/)
  * [→ Dataviz](https://woobull.com/tag/data-visualisation/)
  * [→ Altcoins](https://woobull.com/tag/altcoins/)
  * [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNSawUAJPtGqnhpucPqdDrw)

[ ](https://twitter.com/woonomic "Twitter")

Subscribe

[Markets](https://woobull.com/tag/markets/)

# On peak indecisiveness

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

#### [Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/)

Mar 3, 2019 • 1 min read

Summing Bitfinex's margin BTCUSD long and short positioning charts gives us an
indication of speculator decisiveness. You can pull this chart up on
TradingView with "BTCUSDLONGS+BTCUSDSHORTS". To be clear this is a view into
speculator margin trade activity, in essence the volume they are borrowing
from funders in order to position themselves for a short term leveraged trade
(think of this as selling or buying more than you can normally afford via the
use of lending).

![](https://woobull.com/content/images/2019/03/image-2.png)

Zones of minimal Long + Short positioning have historically coincided with
bearish price action during bear markets (the opposite is true for bull
markets).

When undecided, "[the trend is your
friend](https://education.howthemarketworks.com/news/the-trend-is-your-
friend/)" prevails.

![](https://woobull.com/content/images/2019/03/image-1.png)

## Trend reversal

Interestingly in the Jan 2018 BTCUSD double top, peak indecisiveness did a
phase shift. We went from "more bullish price action", to "more bearish price
action"... an early warning that the trend had reversed and that the start of
the bear market had begun.

![](https://woobull.com/content/images/2019/03/image.png)

## Sign up for more like this.

Enter your email Subscribe

[

## Supply Shock, predicting price by quantifying intent to buy and sell

IntroductionIn any market, price is driven by demand and supply. This is a
fundamental. The most obvious way of seeing this is in the bid and asks
between buyers and sellers. A more nuanced way would be to wave a magic wand
and gauge the intent of investors before the

](/quantifying-supply-shock/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Aug 10, 2021 • 4 min read

[

## The two types of Altcoins, an investor's view

This is a thread on altcoins, first published on Twitter. Altcoins are
nuanced. We have: Protocol coinsUtility tokensSecurity tokensNon-fungible
tokensBut to an investor, there's only 2 types. Oscillators and Degenerators.
You can spot them on this chart of the entire market. The vast majority of
alt-coins are Degenerators. Their price

](/the-two-types-of-altcoins-an-investors-view/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Nov 7, 2019 • 2 min read

[

## Introducing the Difficulty Ribbon, signaling the best times to buy Bitcoin

Introducing the Bitcoin Difficulty Ribbon. When the ribbon compresses, or
flips negative, these are the best times to buy Bitcoin. The ribbon consists
of simple moving averages on mining difficulty so we can easily see the rate
of change in difficulty. How it the Difficulty Ribbon worksThis visualisation
of network

](/introducing-the-difficulty-ribbon-the-best-times-to-buy-bitcoin/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Aug 1, 2019 • 2 min read

[Woobull](https://woobull.com) (C) 2022

[Powered by Ghost](https://ghost.org/)

