[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/bd76c7c3b8e0&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Horizon
Games](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*ikCUFjCj4oHVLxbkYNU06g.png)](https://medium.com/horizongames?source=post_page
-----bd76c7c3b8e0--------------------------------)

Published in

[Horizon Games

](https://medium.com/horizongames?source=post_page-----
bd76c7c3b8e0--------------------------------)

[![Peter
Kieltyka](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/0*r-NcF572knjzC1Bq.jpeg)](/@peterk?source=post_page
-----bd76c7c3b8e0--------------------------------)

[Peter Kieltyka](/@peterk?source=post_page-----
bd76c7c3b8e0--------------------------------)

Follow

Mar 6, 2020

·

4 min read

# On the Horizon for 2020

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*a3Oaj1ryFzjSOS83Zf8YcA.png)

Today, we’re excited to share an update. Since founding Horizon in January
2018, we’ve been on a mission to pioneer a new dimension of gaming that
belongs to its players and creators. We’ve been working hard to build the
right team, the right technology, and the right products to make this new
dimension real. Our team has grown to 24 full-time members, and we are proud
of the culture and values we’re building our organization around.

To kick off the year, we raised an additional $5 million in a round led by
Initialized Capital. We are welcoming ConsenSys, CMT Digital and Regah
Ventures as new investors, and want to thank our existing partners Golden
Ventures, DCG and Polychain, for their continued support. We’re honoured to
have the strategic and financial backing of world-class partners and experts
to supercharge our vision. We’ll use these funds to deliver our first game to
market and continue to build and evolve our blockchain infrastructure for open
and standardized virtual items.

Last summer, we revealed our first product, a digital trading card game —
[_SkyWeaver_](https://skyweaver.net/) — that paves the way for player-owned
economies by leveraging blockchain technology. Since then, _SkyWeaver_ has
come a long way, and the response and engagement from our Private Beta have
been incredible. With 12,000 playtesters, and 90,000+ more players awaiting
access, we already have a wonderful community that we’re extremely grateful
for. We’ve been balancing the game, making tons of UI and UX improvements
based on user feedback, and have been [testing our
Marketplace](https://www.skyweaver.net/news/massive-update-1).

As part of our Private Beta, the [_SkyWeaver_
Preseason](https://www.skyweaver.net/news/preseason-2020) is already live, and
_SkyWeaver_ Season 0 begins later this month! With 500 unique cards to choose
from, Season 0 players will compete for top spots on the leaderboard, and the
top 1,000 players will earn rewards that they’ll be able to play with, trade
and sell once Open Beta begins later this year. (Protip: come join us on our
[Discord](https://discord.gg/SkyWeaver) and get early beta access).

Our players have created beautiful fan art, users have built awesome third-
party tools like [skyweaverdecks.com](https://skyweaverdecks.com/), and the
community has already organized two tournaments — a testament to _SkyWeaver_
’s compelling gameplay. In addition to the gameplay, we’re excited to see how
the community-oriented economy design separates _SkyWeaver_ from any game
that’s come before it.

 _SkyWeaver_ is free-to-play, and by playing ranked matches, players can
ascend the competitive leaderboard to win a crypto-token called Weave. Weave
can be traded and it can be used to craft rare _SkyWeaver_ Gold cards. Players
can play with these cards, build decks with these cards, trade or sell them on
the open market. In fact, players can sell and trade their cards on the built-
in [_SkyWeaver_ marketplace](https://github.com/arcadeum/niftyswap) or on any
other marketplace that supports our open [multi-token standard,
ERC-1155](https://github.com/arcadeum/multi-token-standard) (more on this
below).

[Our original vision for _SkyWeaver_ back in 2018](/horizongames/a-new-
dimension-of-gaming-728d7ae301c5) __ was to offer our players an open economy
with Play-to-Earn incentives. Our unique leaderboard design with Weave and
Gold card rewards helps to realize this vision via a free-to-enter reward
market designed for skill-based play. The only way _SkyWeaver_ Gold cards are
minted into existence is through the weekly leaderboard won by the top
_SkyWeaver_ players. To acquire a Gold card, you’ll have to win it or buy it
from another player.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*vvoCrvXMZjG_JS68mFYngA.jpeg)

To make _SkyWeaver_ possible, we’ve developed a number of novel protocols and
transaction infrastructure for Ethereum. Through clever and careful design,
we’ve architected an Ethereum-based blockchain stack for virtual worlds that
is non-custodial (i.e. players have full ownership of their items), user-
friendly and easy to build on. Even with no prior knowledge of blockchain,
each and every player will be able to store, manage and trade their virtual
items with a user-friendly wallet that we provide. Or, for those more familiar
with blockchain, they’re welcome to use any other Ethereum wallet.

We also co-authored the [ERC-1155 token
standard](https://github.com/arcadeum/multi-token-standard) for putting
virtual game items on the Ethereum blockchain, and we built the infrastructure
to simplify the ownership, transfer and exchange of these items. We’ve
performed multiple audits of our systems and are open sourcing our work for
other projects to benefit from and incorporate blockchain superpowers into
their video games. Similarly to how Epic Games released
[_Unreal_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unreal_\(video_game_series\)) __ to
showcase the Unreal Engine, we’re releasing _SkyWeaver_ to showcase our
blockchain stack for open virtual worlds with novel player incentives and new
monetization possibilities. We are incredibly excited about _SkyWeaver’s_
future and we hope you will love it as much as we do.

Thanks again to our amazing community and investors for supporting and joining
us on our journey. We’re excited about building an increasingly diverse and
collaborative ecosystem, and we look forward to sharing more of our technology
and products publicly — beginning with
[_SkyWeaver_](https://www.skyweaver.net).

Love,

[Peter](https://twitter.com/peterk) \+ the entire [Horizon
team](https://twitter.com/0xHorizonGames)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*AQGbqA7ZmG-hY9NgzzWpkQ.png)

\--

1

\--

\--

1

## [More from Horizon Games](/horizongames?source=post_page-----
bd76c7c3b8e0--------------------------------)

We’re building a New Dimension where Internet economies are fun, accessible,
and for the benefit of all participants. www.horizon.io

[Read more from Horizon Games](/horizongames?source=post_page-----
bd76c7c3b8e0--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![independentyellow](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@independentyellow?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[independentyellow

](/@independentyellow?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Golden Egypt Slot Machine Free Play

](/@independentyellow/golden-egypt-slot-machine-free-
play-3ffe59bc1dce?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![AccelByte
Inc](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*Ef6_ApkfEBeSsjOJgFeANQ.jpeg)](/@accelbyteinc?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[AccelByte Inc

](/@accelbyteinc?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## How to Enable Cross-Progression Between Generations and Platforms

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*5Bw7JbkQZ4p-rvrN.png/EG11/resize/646x-1/quality/80/format/jpg)](/@accelbyteinc/how-
to-enable-cross-progression-between-generations-and-
platforms-d2615d3a485?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Nathan Dhami](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*EimYM3FXA-
x-F5z4LNH9Rw.png)](/@litetheironman?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[Nathan Dhami

](/@litetheironman?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Evo 2021 Online And Why It’s Important

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*cfwhkbIUo3tEioXk.jpg)](/@litetheironman/evo-2021-online-
and-why-its-important-3055e64f15e5?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![League of Ancients](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*7mPbH_JlY7fxDsP-
PJN9Kw.jpeg)](/@leagueofancients?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[League of Ancients

](/@leagueofancients?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## ICYMI: AMA with 3-time Esports World Champion Hyhy — A Summary

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*5lIYl0X1u5slhRxI3RQ6dw.jpeg)](/@leagueofancients/icymi-
ama-with-3-time-esports-world-champion-hyhy-a-
summary-22f422b4c438?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Update
Crazy](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*cvIammy4znGyAtvnQa78Gw.jpeg)](/@sihmar_online?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Update Crazy

](/@sihmar_online?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Best Rainbow Six Extraction Graphics Settings for 120+ FPS (Low and Mid
Range PC)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*3WPhi_MMU1J6OQ40.jpg)](/@sihmar_online/best-
rainbow-six-extraction-graphics-settings-for-120-fps-low-and-mid-range-pc-
af3a222da19e?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

[[![Gamer-
plus.co.uk](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*rKzfuYHPuLVoDZ4xaQ1AgQ.jpeg)](/@Gamerplus?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Gamer-plus.co.uk

](/@Gamerplus?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Borderlands 3 Patch notes

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*AOx3d-K7WiH7OXq2.jpeg)](/@Gamerplus/borderlands-3-patch-
notes-17deb2b74d1d?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Jessie
Staffler](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*irfTM9400RkCVokonawp8A.jpeg)](/@jessiestaf?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Jessie Staffler

](/@jessiestaf?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[The Ugly Monster

](https://medium.com/theuglymonster?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Magical Thinking: War of the Spark

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*-v60Me4MznHPN4p-L3b4ZA.jpeg)](/theuglymonster/magical-
thinking-war-of-the-spark-b82c050c496?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Update
Crazy](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*cvIammy4znGyAtvnQa78Gw.jpeg)](/@sihmar_online?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Update Crazy

](/@sihmar_online?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## The Hunter Classic Update Patch Notes — January 19, 2022

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*lmyxE5C4Pwtg5bJv.png)](/@sihmar_online/the-
hunter-classic-update-patch-notes-
january-19-2022-3f804e1df577?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----bd76c7c3b8e0--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
bd76c7c3b8e0--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
bd76c7c3b8e0--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
bd76c7c3b8e0--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
bd76c7c3b8e0--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----bd76c7c3b8e0--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----bd76c7c3b8e0--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fhorizongames%2Fon-
the-horizon-for-2020-bd76c7c3b8e0&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Peter
Kieltyka](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/0*r-NcF572knjzC1Bq.jpeg)](/@peterk)

[

## Peter Kieltyka

](/@peterk)

373 Followers

Co-founder of Horizon Blockchain Games -
[github.com/pkieltyka](http://github.com/pkieltyka)

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2Fe9843db75028&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fhorizongames%2Fon-
the-horizon-
for-2020-bd76c7c3b8e0&newsletterV3=1e4a94b1ba96&newsletterV3Id=e9843db75028&user=Peter+Kieltyka&userId=1e4a94b1ba96&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Krystal Van
Pelt](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*SOGX57vzl76A28tvlA3fQg.jpeg)](/@Krystal.VanPelt?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------e36afb61_4f37_42eb_891a_08799bbfea19-------)

[Krystal Van Pelt

](/@Krystal.VanPelt?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
e36afb61_4f37_42eb_891a_08799bbfea19-------)

in

[Cortex App

](https://medium.com/cortex-app?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------e36afb61_4f37_42eb_891a_08799bbfea19-------)

## What are NFTs and Why You Should Care: The Future of Web3

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*h37YS2UWalvS-be9)](/cortex-
app/what-are-nfts-and-why-you-should-care-the-future-of-
web3-e5a1672b7b39?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
e36afb61_4f37_42eb_891a_08799bbfea19-------)

[[![Chimaobi
Woke](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*RfjEQ4DO-M4jzeYx)](/@chimaobiwoke?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------e36afb61_4f37_42eb_891a_08799bbfea19-------)

[Chimaobi Woke

](/@chimaobiwoke?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
e36afb61_4f37_42eb_891a_08799bbfea19-------)

## USERS OF ATTA_protocol RARE NFTS

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*UsFzlwh6YTcqom8JmDLZlg.jpeg)](/@chimaobiwoke/users-
of-atta-protocol-rare-nfts-f2467b10cff?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------e36afb61_4f37_42eb_891a_08799bbfea19-------)

[[![Narender
Charan](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*oYckrBv1YCXTEsH7M0firQ.jpeg)](/@backpackerbaba?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------e36afb61_4f37_42eb_891a_08799bbfea19-------)

[Narender Charan

](/@backpackerbaba?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
e36afb61_4f37_42eb_891a_08799bbfea19-------)

in

[HyperLinq

](https://medium.com/hyperlinq?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------e36afb61_4f37_42eb_891a_08799bbfea19-------)

## Understanding Crypto Sharding

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*uXATT3YtkLF0RlptcfDCMA.jpeg)](/hyperlinq/understanding-
crypto-sharding-d441f861c542?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------e36afb61_4f37_42eb_891a_08799bbfea19-------)

[[![CryptoNFT](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*G9lvgaTT4bbSEworjoN-0Q.jpeg)](/@admin_28817?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------e36afb61_4f37_42eb_891a_08799bbfea19-------)

[CryptoNFT

](/@admin_28817?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
e36afb61_4f37_42eb_891a_08799bbfea19-------)

## The New Era of Battle Engagement NFT. Giants Of Luminous is here!!!

](/@admin_28817/the-new-era-of-battle-engagement-nft-giants-of-luminous-is-
here-b7635b10a284?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
e36afb61_4f37_42eb_891a_08799bbfea19-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

