![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/open-source-elections-pioneer-on-helping-voters-with-technology/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/open-source-elections-pioneer-on-helping-voters-with-technology/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/open-source-elections-pioneer-on-helping-voters-with-technology/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/open-source-elections-pioneer-on-helping-voters-with-technology/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/open-source-elections-pioneer-on-helping-voters-with-technology/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/open-source-elections-pioneer-on-helping-voters-with-technology/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Open Source Elections Pioneer on Helping Voters With
Technology](/static/a37ee14d1fa415003b0d87b82e29dd10/Orchid_BlogImage_JGilbert.jpg)

# Open Source Elections Pioneer on Helping Voters With Technology

Sep 15, 2020  
  

![](/img/podcast-bunny.svg)

 **Follow the White Rabbit podcast**[Start
Listening](https://www.orchid.com/podcast/episode-14-juan-gilbert)

Dr. Juan E. Gilbert, a professor at the University of Florida, can recall the
disputed U.S. presidential election 20 years ago when fiascos over counting
ballots in the Sunshine State left the country in limbo. For weeks after
Election Night, counting officials were shown on live television peering at
hanging chads on ballot papers, straining to discern whether a vote had been
cast for Republican George W. Bush or Democrat Al Gore. Eventually, the
Supreme Court decided the result putting Bush in the White House -- with many
votes left untallied.

Motivated to fix such a kind of mess, Juan dismissed widespread skepticism
about technology and set out to bring open source solutions to bear on
election voting systems. Juan is the Andrew Banks Family Preeminence Endowed
Professor and Chair of Computer & Information Science & Engineering
Department, who leads the Human-Centered Research Lab. On the latest episode
of [Follow the White Rabbit](https://www.orchid.com/podcast), he said he
built, along with his students, "the only open-source election technology to
be used in state, local and federal elections in the United States." That
means citizens in the likes of New Hampshire and Ohio have been able to
exercise their right to vote using technology that "gives security,
accessibility, usability and benefits of cost," he added.

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

> We have experiences of building technology that interfaces with people, so
> we understand the technology, we understand the culture and the policy
> around things and that's what helped us build the technology," Juan said.

The issue of voting systems is once again timely less than two months before
Election Night 2020 determines if President Donald Trump will remain in the
White House or be replaced by his Democrat rival Joe Biden. The specter of
another disputed election and drawn-out decision process has emerged during
the campaign, especially as Trump has questioned the reliability of mailed
ballots compared with casting a vote in person at a polling booth. With Covid
19 still prevalent, more people are expected to avoid the voting centers than
in previous elections.

On the podcast, Juan also revealed publicly for the first time an innovation
he has launched to help thwart long lines at the polls. Juan, whose university
is less than a two-hour drive from Orlando, was inspired by the user
experience companies like Disney have developed to reduce lines for popular
rides. The proposal is to use data to help precincts understand their capacity
and create specific time slots for voters who arrive at a polling station that
has a long line. "I am creating a virtual line, where the people can leave but
their spot is still held," he said.

To learn more about Juan's ideas for improving elections, follow us down the
rabbit hole: [listen to the conversation here](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
or on your favorite streaming service.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Decentralization](/tag/decentralization/)
  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Open%20Source%20Elections%20Pioneer%20on%20Helping%20Voters%20With%20Technology%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fopen-
source-elections-pioneer-on-helping-voters-with-technology%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fopen-
source-elections-pioneer-on-helping-voters-with-technology%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fopen-
source-elections-pioneer-on-helping-voters-with-technology%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/meet-orchid-virtually-at-ethdenver-2021/)

#### Meet Orchid (virtually) at ETHDenver 2021

](/meet-orchid-virtually-at-ethdenver-2021/)

Feb 4, 2021

](/joe-toscano-on-fighting-big-tech-bias-with-data-science/)

[

#### Joe Toscano on Fighting Big Tech Bias With Data Science

](/joe-toscano-on-fighting-big-tech-bias-with-data-science/)

Feb 8, 2021

](/should-you-leave-your-vpn-on-all-the-time/)

[

#### Should you leave your VPN on all the time?

](/should-you-leave-your-vpn-on-all-the-time/)

Feb 10, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

