![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-trustwallet/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-trustwallet/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-trustwallet/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-trustwallet/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-trustwallet/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-trustwallet/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid Partners with
TrustWallet](/static/65a9000330fe315e6eb5f462a237b127/Orchid_BlogImage_Trust.png)

# Orchid Partners with TrustWallet

Mar 10, 2020  
  

Today, Orchid announces its new integration with
[TrustWallet](https://trustwallet.com/), the official cryptocurrency wallet of
Binance.

TrustWallet is a decentralized repository that supports the leading
cryptocurrencies, including bitcoin, ethereum, and XRP. Its built-in Web3
browser lets users operate decentralized apps without leaving TrustWallet. The
application guarantees anonymity and includes multiple layers of identity
security.

New Orchid users can open an account by creating an Ethereum address using
TrustWallet and purchasing at least $4 in OXT (you can [get it on
Coinbase](https://www.coinbase.com/price/orchid)) and $1 of ETH. Once the
account is created, a shareable QR code appears that contains account
credentials. Anyone can copy or scan that account into the app for a 1-step
setup.

Dr. Steven Waterhouse, Orchid’s Co-Founder and CEO, said: “It’s important that
our users have multiple ways of storing their OXT. TrustWallet is a leader in
cryptocurrency wallets; integration with the app means that many more users
will have an easy way to hold, trade, and transfer OXT. It’s a major step
forward for our vision of a private internet.”

Download the Orchid app to control your privacy in a new way
[here](https://www.orchid.com/download).

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Partnerships](/tag/partnerships/)
  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%20Partners%20with%20TrustWallet%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
partners-with-trustwallet%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
partners-with-trustwallet%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
partners-with-trustwallet%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

[

#### OXT is Listed on Vauld

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

Jan 14, 2022

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

