![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/actions-taken-in-response-to-covid-19/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/actions-taken-in-response-to-covid-19/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/actions-taken-in-response-to-covid-19/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/actions-taken-in-response-to-covid-19/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/actions-taken-in-response-to-covid-19/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/actions-taken-in-response-to-covid-19/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid update: actions taken in response to
COVID-19](/static/71687552459e88e27b582e7ed91fd9ba/Orchid_BlogImage_Covid.jpg)

# Orchid update: actions taken in response to COVID-19

Mar 20, 2020  
  

As governments, businesses, and people around the world work to halt the
spread of COVID-19, our primary concern is the health and safety of our team
and their families, our users and partners, and all of the communities
impacted by the global pandemic.

In light of these concerns, we have placed a pause on all team member travel
until further notice. Orchid team members will not travel or participate in
face-to-face meetings during this time. Given the widespread hold on travel
and in-person events, we are shifting our focus to digital marketing and
virtual events, many of which are currently being organized for the spring. We
will otherwise maintain our normal operations with the team continuing to work
remotely.

From an operational perspective, very little will change for Orchid in the
coming months. We are decentralized by design and have always been a remote-
first organization. With our team spread across multiple cities and
continents, we will continue working to the highest possible standards, using
videoconferencing and messaging tools to collaborate. Our hiring plans have
not changed -- you can find a list of open positions
[here](https://angel.co/company/orchid-labs/jobs).

Orchid is also continuing to grow partnerships with some of the leading VPNs,
including [LiquidVPN](/orchid-partners-with-liquidvpn/), [PIA](/pia-bringing-
trusted-private-bandwidth-to-orchid-users/), and [VPNSecure](/orchid-partners-
with-vpnsecure/). cnet’s [recent article highlighting
Orchid](https://www.cnet.com/news/this-vpn-built-on-blockchain-could-be-the-
next-step-in-privacy-tech/) as “the next step in privacy tech” is
representative of the momentum we are continuing to see in the market.

We recognize, however, that this is the first time many people around the
world will be working remotely on a regular basis. We know that Internet
privacy tools can be crucial for workers in sensitive industries and/or
geographies, and we understand that the need to work remotely for an extended
period is likely to cause significant disruption.

As a result of these macro changes, we have made a decision to prioritize
Orchid’s desktop clients. This is designed to support the increased numbers of
people who will be accessing the Internet from their desktops at home.
Orchid’s command line client for macOS will be the first to be released, a
major step toward having a full desktop client available. We will share
additional information as soon as it is ready.

**Lastly -- we are making Orchid available for free to all journalists in
order to ensure they are able to access and transmit accurate information, no
matter where in the world they are. If you are a journalist, email
amanda@orchid.com with the name of your publication and proof of your status,
to get set up and receive a personal onboarding.**

More than anything else, we recognize that this global crisis is likely to
have a profound impact on the lives and livelihoods of many millions of people
around the world. We are committed to doing everything we can to ease the
disruption and support individuals and businesses that are impacted.

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

Additional updates regarding COVID-19 and the actions Orchid is taking will be
posted here as the situation evolves. Stay in touch and up to date at
orchid.com, or through our social channels:

GitHub: [OrchidTechnologies](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)

Facebook: [OrchidProtocol](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)

Telegram: [OrchidOfficial](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)

Twitter: [OrchidProtocol](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)

Thank you for being part of the Orchid community.

Wishing you and your family well,

Dr. Steven Waterhouse (Seven)

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [Censorship](/tag/censorship/)
  * [Decentralization](/tag/decentralization/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%20update%3A%20actions%20taken%20in%20response%20to%20COVID-19%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Factions-
taken-in-response-to-covid-19%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Factions-
taken-in-response-to-covid-19%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Factions-
taken-in-response-to-covid-19%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/marvin-tong-on-battling-the-data-empire-with-privacy-and-decentralization/)

#### Marvin Tong on Battling the “Data Empire” with Privacy and
Decentralization

](/marvin-tong-on-battling-the-data-empire-with-privacy-and-decentralization/)

Mar 22, 2021

](/access-nows-brett-solomon-on-shifting-norms-for-digital-rights/)

[

#### Access Now’s Brett Solomon on Shifting Norms for Digital Rights

](/access-nows-brett-solomon-on-shifting-norms-for-digital-rights/)

Oct 4, 2021

](/looking-back-on-2021-priv8s-top-ten-episodes-of-the-year/)

[

#### Looking back on 2021: Priv8’s top ten episodes of the year

](/looking-back-on-2021-priv8s-top-ten-episodes-of-the-year/)

Dec 13, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

