![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-bloq/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-bloq/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-bloq/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-bloq/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-bloq/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-bloq/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid Partners with Bloq, Launches Waitlist for Staking
Interface](/static/aa8b0c960888a0c59c37a5a1c939ccf0/Orchid_BlogImage_Bloq.jpg)

# Orchid Partners with Bloq, Launches Waitlist for Staking Interface

Apr 23, 2020  
  

Building the Orchid network is a global effort that requires collaboration
with many entities, from tech innovators to privacy service providers to the
individual participation of blockchain enthusiasts. That's why Orchid's
partnership with leading blockchain infrastructure innovator
[Bloq](https://www.bloq.com/) is a crucial step in adding even more incentives
to join our network, helping users earn revenue from the exchange of private
bandwidth.

In addition to serving as a bandwidth provider on the platform, Bloq is
building an interface that will help token holders stake tokens and contribute
to the bandwidth marketplace. With this interface users will be able to
delegate their stake of Orchid's digital currency (OXT) to bandwidth
providers, earning OXT without requiring any hardware to run an Orchid node.
While this staking interface will be released later this year, users who are
interested in delegating their stake to bandwidth providers can [sign up for
the waitlist starting today](https://www.bloq.com/orchid/).

Orchid CEO Dr. Steven Waterhouse (Seven) said: "Bloq is a leader in the
blockchain space and is a key partner in helping grow the Orchid network.
Incentivization is the missing piece in peer-to-peer privacy, and making it
easy for people to earn tokens by delegating their stake to bandwidth
providers will do exactly that. Bloq is a key partner in our goal of creating
a community that makes the Internet a more free and private place."

Matthew Roszak, Chairman and Co-Founder of Bloq said: "Privacy and blockchain
have emerged as the two most important topics in technology over the past
decade. Orchid is rooted deeply in both of these conversations. We're proud to
play a role in building this interface and in the network that will deliver on
the promise of combining quality-of-service and enhanced privacy in the VPN
space."

To join the interface waiting list, [visit
bloq.com/orchid](https://www.bloq.com/orchid/). Follow us on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol) for updates on how to delegate
your stake and earn OXT. In the meantime, [sign up for Orchid
today](https://www.orchid.com/join) to take responsibility for your privacy.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [Partnerships](/tag/partnerships/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%20Partners%20with%20Bloq%2C%20Launches%20Waitlist%20for%20Staking%20Interface%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
partners-with-bloq%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
partners-with-bloq%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
partners-with-bloq%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

[

#### OXT is Listed on Vauld

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

Jan 14, 2022

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

