![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/orchid-finishes-q3-with-strong-momentum-and-a-growing-global-presence/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/orchid-finishes-q3-with-strong-momentum-and-a-growing-global-presence/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/orchid-finishes-q3-with-strong-momentum-and-a-growing-global-presence/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/orchid-finishes-q3-with-strong-momentum-and-a-growing-global-presence/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/orchid-finishes-q3-with-strong-momentum-and-a-growing-global-presence/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/orchid-finishes-q3-with-strong-momentum-and-a-growing-global-presence/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid finishes Q3 with strong momentum and a growing global
presence](/static/af5ac8f2b6f8b9a655275cd3ad0e33fd/Orchid_BlogImage_Q32020.png)

# Orchid finishes Q3 with strong momentum and a growing global presence

Oct 13, 2020  
  

The past few months have seen major disruption in nearly every sector of the
global economy -- and privacy has been particularly prominent. At times it can
seem like every policy and business question, from contact tracing to TikTok,
touches on privacy. VPNs have come to prominence as people, many working from
home for the first time, have sought better security when using the Internet.
Orchid is no exception to this trend: during the third quarter, we saw
continued growth both in terms of new features and an expanding global
presence.

Orchid's digital asset, OXT, which is used to power the network, [is now
listed on Binance](/binance-worlds-largest-crypto-exchange-lists-orchid-
digital-asset-oxt/), the world's largest cryptocurrency exchange. We believe
that Binance's decision to list OXT reflects rapidly growing interest in
privacy and makes our privacy solution available to the millions of people in
over 180 countries who use Binance. The listing comes on the heels of OXT
being made available on [Uphold](/orchids-momentum-accelerates-with-uphold-
integration/), [BKEX](/oxt-expands-reach-with-new-exchange-listing-bkex/), and
[Bitcoin.com](https://www.bitcoin.com/).

Over the past quarter, we have increased and strengthened Orchid's
partnerships with other leaders in the privacy community. We are beginning to
realize the benefits of the collaboration with Chainlink that we announced in
June; this month [we shared](/orchid-launches-second-chainlink-oracle/) that
our pricing oracles built together with Chainlink are now online, helping
Orchid users better understand bandwidth pricing as it fluctuates with the
market. We are looking forward to continuing this partnership on both the
technology and the community side. Orchid is working together with Chainlink
to help with education focused on Internet privacy, recently speaking about
the topic at Chainlink's Smart Contract Summit.

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

This summer we added support for [WireGuard®️](/orchid-adds-wireguard-support-
across-ios,-macos-and-android/?v), a fast-growing VPN protocol, for all our
app users across iOS, macOS, and Android. They can now configure multiple hops
through WireGuard, OpenVPN and/or the Orchid network for a faster and more
secure experience to keep their data private online.

A seamless user experience has always been key to Orchid's vision. That's why
the [launch of our iOS app](/orchid-launches-in-apple-app-
store/#:~:text=In%2Dapp%20purchases%20give%20people,App%20Store%20and%20Google%20Playstore.)
in July, featuring in-app purchases, was such an important milestone. In-app
purchases let users buy "pre-filled" Orchid accounts using nothing more than a
credit card, making the network as simple to use as any other mobile app. Pre-
filled accounts function like gift cards, drawing down OXT as bandwidth is
consumed. With this feature, using Orchid is a [simple two-step process](/how-
to-start-using-orchids-crypto-vpn-in-seconds/), with no need to install a
wallet or pay for gas on the Ethereum network. And users still enjoy the full
privacy benefits of Orchid's decentralized VPN service.

The Orchid network continues to evolve and recent enhancements were added to
improve speed and scalability. These infrastructure changes include improved
gas cost efficiency and with recent updates to the client and server software,
users are seeing [faster](/orchid-just-got-faster/) VPN speeds across the
board.

Orchid's goal is to help restore the Internet as the place of exploration and
curiosity it was intended to be. To achieve this, we are working hard with the
open source community to deliver a strong privacy solution in an app that is
easy and friendly to use, and that is available to people wherever they are in
the world. This quarter, we notched some important successes both in terms of
seeing new exchanges support the Orchid Network, and making Orchid easier than
ever to use through features like in-app purchases. As we move into the last
quarter of 2020, our team is working hard to build on this progress.

Thank you to all the members of the Orchid community for your continued
support.

[Download Orchid today](https://www.orchid.com/download) in the Apple App
Store and Google Playstore.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%20finishes%20Q3%20with%20strong%20momentum%20and%20a%20growing%20global%20presence%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
finishes-q3-with-strong-momentum-and-a-growing-global-presence%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
finishes-q3-with-strong-momentum-and-a-growing-global-presence%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
finishes-q3-with-strong-momentum-and-a-growing-global-presence%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

](/orchid-answers-the-communitys-questions-in-binance-espaol-ama/)

[

#### Orchid answers the community’s questions in Binance Español AMA

](/orchid-answers-the-communitys-questions-in-binance-espaol-ama/)

Feb 23, 2021

](/follow-the-white-rabbit-is-now-the-priv8-podcast-/)

[

#### Follow the White Rabbit is now the Priv8 Podcast

](/follow-the-white-rabbit-is-now-the-priv8-podcast-/)

Apr 22, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

