![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/orchid-is-now-available-for-desktop-on-macos/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/orchid-is-now-available-for-desktop-on-macos/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/orchid-is-now-available-for-desktop-on-macos/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/orchid-is-now-available-for-desktop-on-macos/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/orchid-is-now-available-for-desktop-on-macos/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/orchid-is-now-available-for-desktop-on-macos/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid is now available for desktop on
MacOS](/static/df5b15edfe43837b3a24bba3e0f8cceb/Orchid_BlogImage_macOS3.png)

# Orchid is now available for desktop on MacOS

Jul 22, 2020  
  

The Orchid app is now available for desktop [on
MacOS](https://www.orchid.com/download). This release will allow the operating
system's [100 million users](https://appleinsider.com/articles/18/10/30/apple-
passes-100m-active-mac-milestone-thanks-to-high-numbers-of-new-
users#:~:text=Advertise%20on%20AI-,There%20are%20now%20100%20million%20active%20Macs,high%20number%20of%20new%20adopters&text=Apple%20has%20reached%20a%20new,and%20MacBooks%20around%20the%20world.)
to browse the Internet in privacy using Orchid's unique, decentralized VPN
marketplace.

Orchid uses a robust system of incentives to match supply with demand and
ensure ample bandwidth is available. People can use
[OXT](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works#oxt), the Orchid digital currency,
to fund their account, and can then purchase VPN service on a pay-as-you-go
basis. [In-app purchases](/orchid-launches-in-apple-app-
store/#:~:text=In%2Dapp%20purchases%20give%20people,App%20Store%20and%20Google%20Playstore.)
\-- currently available for iOS -- will be available for MacOS starting
immediately. In-app purchases let people buy a pre-filled Orchid account and
use the service without the need to acquire or transfer OXT.

Dr. Steven Waterhouse, Orchid's Co-Founder and CEO said: "Many more people are
now at home and surfing the Internet from a desktop, so it's essential that we
expand the places where Orchid is available in order to meet their needs.
Orchid is committed to offering the best possible Internet privacy across
operating systems and devices, and the MacOS release is a big step in that
direction."

In March, Orchid [outlined](/actions-taken-in-response-to-covid-19/) its
decision to prioritize desktop clients in order to support increased numbers
of people accessing the Internet from their desktops at home. With the
coronavirus pandemic likely to keep remote work commonplace for the
foreseeable future, access to strong Internet privacy tools is more important
than ever.

Further updates, including announcements regarding in-app purchases for MacOS,
will be shared in the coming months.

[Download the Orchid app](https://www.orchid.com/download) to start exploring
the Internet freely.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [VPN](/tag/vpn/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%20is%20now%20available%20for%20desktop%20on%20MacOS%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
is-now-available-for-desktop-on-macos%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
is-now-available-for-desktop-on-macos%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
is-now-available-for-desktop-on-macos%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/starting-today-it-only-costs-1-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

#### Starting today, it only costs $1 to get started with Orchid

](/starting-today-it-only-costs-1-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

Mar 25, 2021

](/get-started-with-orchid-on-android-for-just-1/)

[

#### Get started with Orchid on Android for just $1

](/get-started-with-orchid-on-android-for-just-1/)

May 24, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-kucoin/)

[

#### OXT is listed on KuCoin

](/oxt-is-listed-on-kucoin/)

Sep 13, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

