![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-vpnsecure/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-vpnsecure/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-vpnsecure/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-vpnsecure/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-vpnsecure/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-vpnsecure/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid Partners with
VPNSecure](/static/34139eb2b5c5b713c9709f7de4a33906/Orchid_BlogImage_VPNSec.jpg)

# Orchid Partners with VPNSecure

Feb 12, 2020  
  

As Orchid continues to build tools for a private and fair internet, we’ll be
collaborating with other leaders in electronic privacy. Today, we’re proud to
announce Orchid’s integration with VPNSecure, a premiere digital security
firm.

Since 2010, VPNSecure has provided security-conscious users a powerful tool
for safe browsing. Users know that VPNSecure never logs its users’ IP
addresses, connection or disconnection timestamps, bandwidth usages, DNS
request.

Users can pay for private bandwidth from VPNSecure on a per-byte basis using
Orchid’s native currency, OXT, available on
[Coinbase](https://www.coinbase.com/price/orchid). Existing VPNSecure
subscribers can use their OpenVPN credentials in the Orchid app, and even
combine them with other privacy providers to construct multi-hop routes.

Shayne McCulloch, Founder of VPNSecure, said: “VPNSecure is proud to partner
with Orchid to provide privacy anywhere, anytime. We share Orchid’s vision of
an open and free internet and this brings us even closer, as we are able to
give control back to internet users. This was a natural partnership — we both
remain committed to protecting users’ data privacy.”

Dr. Steven Waterhouse, Orchid’s Co-Founder and CEO said: “At Orchid, we’re
always happy to partner with like-minded firms and individuals, and for years
we’ve admired the work that VPNSecure has done in the privacy and security
space. We’re honored and excited to work with them to build a better
internet.”

Download the Orchid app to control your privacy in a new way
[here](https://www.orchid.com/download).

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Partnerships](/tag/partnerships/)
  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%20Partners%20with%20VPNSecure%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
partners-with-vpnsecure%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
partners-with-vpnsecure%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
partners-with-vpnsecure%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

[

#### OXT is Listed on Vauld

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

Jan 14, 2022

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

