![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/orchid-just-got-faster/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/orchid-just-got-faster/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/orchid-just-got-faster/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/orchid-just-got-faster/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/orchid-just-got-faster/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/orchid-just-got-faster/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid just got
faster](/static/5db9e1413e5de8e5b7b17f57c9795c12/Orchid_BlogImage_Faster.jpg)

# Orchid just got faster

Sep 2, 2020  
  

Orchid is now faster and easier to use than ever, thanks to two important
improvements our team has recently rolled out. These upgrades to the Orchid
server and client have increased VPN speeds across the platform. People using
Orchid can now expect pages to load even faster and connection speeds to
improve noticeably.

To achieve these performance improvements on the server side, the team made
targeted modifications to the SCTP layer of the WebRTC stack, which have
improved the congestion control algorithms. On the client side, a modification
was made to the maximum transmission unit (MTU), which regulates the size of a
packet, to avoid SCTP fragmentation. Together, these two upgrades offer Orchid
users an improved experience through faster connections on the Orchid
protocol.

Orchid is a unique VPN app that lets people split their traffic into "hops"
across multiple nodes, providers and protocols. Users can fund an Orchid
account using its native digital currency, [OXT](/how-oxt-works-on-the-orchid-
network/), and can then purchase VPN service on a pay-as-you-go basis. People
using the iOS and macOS apps can also purchase pre-filled accounts through
[in-app purchases](/why-orchids-in-app-purchases-are-a-game-changer-for-dapp-
usage/), with no need to obtain cryptocurrency or use a wallet. Orchid is
completely ad-free and the app contains no tracking software.

Through innovations like [probabilistic nanopayments](/introducing-
nanopayments/), the Orchid protocol is designed to ensure ample bandwidth
supplies and fast connection speeds at all times. The recent upgrades are
expected to further enhance connection speeds for users, making it even easier
to explore the Internet freely.

[Download the Orchid app](https://www.orchid.com/download) today for iOS,
MacOS, and Android.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [VPN](/tag/vpn/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%20just%20got%20faster%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
just-got-faster%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
just-got-faster%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
just-got-faster%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/starting-today-it-only-costs-1-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

#### Starting today, it only costs $1 to get started with Orchid

](/starting-today-it-only-costs-1-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

Mar 25, 2021

](/get-started-with-orchid-on-android-for-just-1/)

[

#### Get started with Orchid on Android for just $1

](/get-started-with-orchid-on-android-for-just-1/)

May 24, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-kucoin/)

[

#### OXT is listed on KuCoin

](/oxt-is-listed-on-kucoin/)

Sep 13, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

