![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/orchid-launches-in-apple-app-store/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/orchid-launches-in-apple-app-store/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/orchid-launches-in-apple-app-store/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/orchid-launches-in-apple-app-store/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/orchid-launches-in-apple-app-store/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/orchid-launches-in-apple-app-store/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid launches in Apple App Store, with new in-app purchases that make
setup
easy](/static/ea2edd7825e1ba73811df11403be30f1/Orchid_BlogImage_iOSUpdate.png)

# Orchid launches in Apple App Store, with new in-app purchases that make
setup easy

Jul 8, 2020  
  

We are excited to announce that Orchid is now [in the Apple App
store](https://www.orchid.com/download), and includes a special feature: iOS
users can buy an Orchid account right in the app. This new feature makes it
easy to use the crypto powered VPN with only fiat currency such as U.S.
Dollars (USD) -- there's no need to acquire or transfer cryptocurrency at all.
People can now enjoy all the benefits of Orchid's peer-to-peer bandwidth
market with the same level of convenience as any other app.

Before in-app purchases, users had to go through the somewhat complex process
of setting up and funding an Orchid account with crypto to get started. The
[steps required](/how-to-start-using-orchid-with-oxt/) \-- including acquiring
OXT (the Orchid DApp coin) and ETH, installing a web3 browser, running smart
contracts, and transferring a key -- will be familiar to anyone who has spent
time in the crypto space.

Now there's an easier way to get started. In-app purchases give people fully
functional, shareable Orchid accounts powered by crypto, but with a simplified
onboarding process that's as quick as any other iOS app. And all users enjoy
the same level of privacy Orchid has always provided.

[Download Orchid today](https://www.orchid.com/download) in the Apple App
Store and Google Playstore.

**Orchid takes care of the details so users don't have to**

In-app purchases make it much easier to get started using Orchid, but the
underlying architecture of the network is unchanged. Orchid's decentralized
marketplace is still powered by [OXT, the Orchid Digital
Currency](https://www.orchid.com/oxt), which is used to pay for VPN bandwidth
through a unique system of [probabilistic
nanopayments](https://medium.com/orchid-labs/probabilistic-
nanopayments-4aa423c3f22f), and users still get the full benefit of the
privacy and ample bandwidth Orchid provides. What's new is that rather than
creating an account with their own cryptocurrency, users are able to buy one
that's been pre-created for them (like a prepaid gift card). Orchid's new fiat
payment system allows users to purchase an Orchid account with only fiat
currency such as USD. To pay for bandwidth from a randomly selected VPN
provider, users simply go to their account on the Orchid app and select "Add
Hop." They then select "Buy Orchid Account," choose the dollar amount they
would like to spend, and confirm their purchase through Apple. No wallets or
crypto exchanges necessary.

To make this possible, Orchid automatically pre-funds a pool of accounts that
can be assigned to users when purchased. There are three tiers of accounts,
priced for different levels of Internet activity: $6.99, $29.99, and $79.99
for the heaviest users. Everything about the process is automated: a dedicated
server manages an OXT/ETH wallet, creates accounts, and pools these accounts
together. When a user purchases one, this same server assigns it to them at
random. For each pricing tier, the server maintains a discreet pool of pre-
funded Orchid accounts.

![PAC Architecture Diagram](/img/uploads/PAC_Architecture_Diagram.png)

Once they have an account, people can use the Orchid app just as if they
created the account with their [own OXT](https://www.orchid.com/join). When
someone buys an account with an in-app purchase, it's their account -- they
have a private key and can share with anyone they like. The only difference is
that users cannot take funds out of these accounts. They can only be used to
buy bandwidth on Orchid, similar to a gift card. When one of these pre-filled
accounts runs low on OXT, the user receives a notification, and can buy a new
one.

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

**In-app purchases will soon be available on other operating systems**

In-app purchases currently support the iOS app, and soon will support Android
as well. The team also has plans to expand pre-filled accounts to be
compatible with credit card processors, allowing people to buy an account
directly on the Orchid website. These accounts could then be linked through
the app.

**The open-source future**

Like the rest of Orchid, the "prepaid access credit" system is fully open-
source. Eventually, we expect other developers to build on top of it to
contribute to the Orchid open source ecosystem.. Currently, when a user buys a
pre-filled account, the Orchid client provides the pooled accounts server with
an Apple receipt, which the server verifies as valid before assigning the
account. (Orchid does not log these transactions.) Because it is open-source,
Orchid's fiat architecture can be run by others to build new applications.

If you are interested in learning more about Orchid's open-source ecosystem,
please [contact us](https://www.orchid.com/contact).

**Making Internet privacy more accessible**

The release of in-app purchases is a major step toward Orchid's goal of making
Internet privacy accessible to as many people as possible. This milestone lets
people start exploring the Internet freely as soon as they've downloaded the
app -- and all from their smartphones. Soon, in-app purchases will support
Android as well as individual credit cards, further broadening this
accessibility. And the more people that are able to go online in safety and
privacy with tools like Orchid, the closer we will be to restoring an open and
accessible Internet for all.

[Download Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/download) today.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [VPN](/tag/vpn/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%20launches%20in%20Apple%20App%20Store%2C%20with%20new%20in-
app%20purchases%20that%20make%20setup%20easy%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
launches-in-apple-app-store%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
launches-in-apple-app-store%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
launches-in-apple-app-store%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/starting-today-it-only-costs-1-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

#### Starting today, it only costs $1 to get started with Orchid

](/starting-today-it-only-costs-1-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

Mar 25, 2021

](/get-started-with-orchid-on-android-for-just-1/)

[

#### Get started with Orchid on Android for just $1

](/get-started-with-orchid-on-android-for-just-1/)

May 24, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-kucoin/)

[

#### OXT is listed on KuCoin

](/oxt-is-listed-on-kucoin/)

Sep 13, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

