![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/orchid-integrates-with-imtoken/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/orchid-integrates-with-imtoken/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/orchid-integrates-with-imtoken/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/orchid-integrates-with-imtoken/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/orchid-integrates-with-imtoken/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/orchid-integrates-with-imtoken/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid Integrates with
imToken](/static/7d7371b24a024b630cc888c533e16157/Orchid_BlogImage_imToken.jpg)

# Orchid Integrates with imToken

Apr 1, 2020  
  

Today, Orchid announces its new integration with [imToken](http://token.im),
one of most popular crypto wallet providers in the world.

imToken was established in May 2016, and expanded its user base to 10 million
crypto holders from more than 200 countries, including 8 million in China.
Orchid's latest release adds support for Mandarin, Korean, Japanese,
Indonesian and Russian-speaking users.

New Orchid users can open an account by creating an Ethereum address using
imToken and purchasing at least $4 in OXT (you can get it on
[Coinbase](https://www.coinbase.com/price/orchid) and
[OKEx](https://www.okex.com/)) and $1 of ETH. Once the account is created, a
shareable QR code appears that contains account credentials. Anyone can copy
or scan that account into the app for a 1-step setup.

Orchid CEO Dr. Steven Waterhouse said: "Taking our privacy network global
requires the right set of international partners. imToken has done great work
in building a secure and user-friendly product --- many more users will now
have an easy way to hold their OXT and use it to buy private bandwidth."

Philipp Seifert of imToken said: "The freedom to use an open web is critical
to our users. We're thrilled to engage with Orchid's lively global community
and make it easier for anyone to access and use OXT."

Download the Orchid app to control your privacy in a new way
[here](https://www.orchid.com/download).

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [Partnerships](/tag/partnerships/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%20Integrates%20with%20imToken%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
integrates-with-imtoken%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
integrates-with-imtoken%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
integrates-with-imtoken%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

[

#### OXT is Listed on Vauld

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

Jan 14, 2022

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

