![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/orchid-now-available-for-macos-command-line/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/orchid-now-available-for-macos-command-line/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/orchid-now-available-for-macos-command-line/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/orchid-now-available-for-macos-command-line/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/orchid-now-available-for-macos-command-line/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/orchid-now-available-for-macos-command-line/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid Now Available for MacOS Command
Line](/static/8de7293fd95e8ff9bf6bd943777cc990/Orchid_BlogImage_CommandLine.png)

# Orchid Now Available for MacOS Command Line

Mar 31, 2020  
  

As many people around the world adjust to working remotely, Internet privacy
tools can be crucial for workers in sensitive industries and/or geographies.
As a result of these macro changes, we have made a decision to prioritize
Orchid's desktop clients. This is designed to support the increased numbers of
people who will be accessing the Internet from their desktops at home.

In that light, today we're excited to announce that Orchid's command line
client for macOS is now available, a major step toward a full desktop client
with a complete GUI and interface.

Dr. Steven Waterhouse, Orchid's Co-Founder and CEO said: "Crises are crucial
times to preserve privacy. We want to make sure everyone everywhere has access
to the tools they need to maintain their privacy, safety, and freedom. We're
thrilled to bring our peer-to-peer privacy network to MacOS users."

Our command line client is available via [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) and
requires a config file that you export from a working iOS or Android client.
Here are the installation directions:

  1. Run the Terminal app in macOS
  2. Before we start let's find our current public IP address:
  3. In the terminal type:

    
    
    curl ipecho.net/plain ; echo
    

This will give you your current public IP address. Remember this - it should
be different after we start the orchid client.

  1. Install Xcode with the command `xcode-select --install`
  2. Install Homebrew with the command

    
    
    /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install.sh)"
    

  1. Install Orchid through Brew with the command `brew install orchidtechnologies/tap/orchid`
  2. Open your iOS or Android Orchid app and export your configuration by going to hamburger menu->Settings->Manage configuration->Export
  3. The configuration is shown in a box of text. You will need to transfer that to your macOS. Mac's universal clipboard works or you could email the text to yourself. You will then want to create a file with that text and call it something you remember. I chose 'orchid.cfg'.
  4. Copy orchid.cfg to wherever you want and then specify the absolute path when you run Orchid. Start Orchid by running

    
    
    sudo orchid --config orchid.cfg
    

  1. Orchid will run and output a lot of information to the terminal. Wait until the output stabilizes and then check your Internet connection to make sure things are working. Hit CTRL+C to stop the process if it is not working or you need to restart it, or to turn off the VPN. 
  2. In a new terminal type:

    
    
    curl ipecho.net/plain ; echo
    

This will give you your new public IP address.

Orchid is also available for Linux, or for Android in the [Play
Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=net.orchid.Orchid&hl=en_US)
or for iOS on the [App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id1474884867).
Download the Orchid app to control your privacy in a new way today.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [VPN](/tag/vpn/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%20Now%20Available%20for%20MacOS%20Command%20Line%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
now-available-for-macos-command-line%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
now-available-for-macos-command-line%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
now-available-for-macos-command-line%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/starting-today-it-only-costs-1-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

#### Starting today, it only costs $1 to get started with Orchid

](/starting-today-it-only-costs-1-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

Mar 25, 2021

](/get-started-with-orchid-on-android-for-just-1/)

[

#### Get started with Orchid on Android for just $1

](/get-started-with-orchid-on-android-for-just-1/)

May 24, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-kucoin/)

[

#### OXT is listed on KuCoin

](/oxt-is-listed-on-kucoin/)

Sep 13, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

