![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/orchid-joins-the-blockchain-association/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/orchid-joins-the-blockchain-association/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/orchid-joins-the-blockchain-association/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/orchid-joins-the-blockchain-association/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/orchid-joins-the-blockchain-association/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/orchid-joins-the-blockchain-association/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid Joins Leading Industry Group the Blockchain
Association](/static/2294fea96bf0796dceaac8be729caa86/Orchid_BlogImage_BlockchainAssociation.jpg)

# Orchid Joins Leading Industry Group the Blockchain Association

Mar 19, 2020  
  

At Orchid, we know that we’re not alone in our vision of a safe and private
Internet. Today, we’re proud to announce that we’ve joined the Blockchain
Association, the blockchain industry’s leading institutional alliance.

Orchid co-founder and CEO Dr. Steven Waterhouse (Seven) said: “The Blockchain
Association comprises many of the most visionary projects, firms, and
institutions in blockchain. We are honored and excited to join their ranks as
we collaborate on building a more secure Internet.”

“We’re lucky to work with some of the most innovative companies in the
blockchain ecosystem, and we’re pleased to add Orchid’s perspective to our
community in support of clear, responsive U.S. regulations. In an era of
increasing digital surveillance capabilities, Orchid’s project returns online
freedom to users, a service that will only become more vital in the years to
come,” noted Kristin Smith, executive director of the Blockchain Association.

As a blockchain-powered platform, Orchid has a responsibility to promote the
acceptance, growth, and understanding of blockchain technology. The Blockchain
Association is a leading industry group fully committed to the growth,
expansion, and understanding of technologies that can transform the ways we
live and do business. By collaborating with regulators and policymakers, the
Blockchain Association is working to craft and support clear regulations that
will spur growth in the blockchain economy for decades to come.

For a full list of the Association’s membership and to learn more about its
mission and projects, please visit
[theblockchainassociation.org](https://theblockchainassociation.org/)

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%20Joins%20Leading%20Industry%20Group%20the%20Blockchain%20Association%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
joins-the-blockchain-association%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
joins-the-blockchain-association%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
joins-the-blockchain-association%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

](/orchid-answers-the-communitys-questions-in-binance-espaol-ama/)

[

#### Orchid answers the community’s questions in Binance Español AMA

](/orchid-answers-the-communitys-questions-in-binance-espaol-ama/)

Feb 23, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

