![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/orchid-collaborates-with-chainlink/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/orchid-collaborates-with-chainlink/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/orchid-collaborates-with-chainlink/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/orchid-collaborates-with-chainlink/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/orchid-collaborates-with-chainlink/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/orchid-collaborates-with-chainlink/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid collaborates with Chainlink to build USD bandwidth-pricing
oracles](/static/e6d97f6dda64de5097e665a85da92feb/Orchid_BlogImage_Chainlink.png)

# Orchid collaborates with Chainlink to build USD bandwidth-pricing oracles

Jun 16, 2020  
  

Orchid is collaborating with [Chainlink](https://chain.link/), a network of
decentralized oracles, on two new tools that make it easier for Orchid users
to determine the price of VPN bandwidth. Chainlink is widely considered the
market leader in decentralized oracles, providing trusted price feeds to many
leading DeFi applications such as Synthetix, Aave, and Nexus Mutual. Chainlink
oracles allow blockchains to access information outside their networks (off-
chain) in a highly secure manner, providing more meaningful data to on-chain
applications while retaining their end-to-end security.

The first oracle -- [already up and running](https://feeds.chain.link/) \-- is
a OXT/USD price feed, giving users the ability to price VPN bandwidth in U.S.
dollars. Chainlink's decentralized price oracle will help limit the distorting
effect of short-term pricing volatility by smoothing moment-to-moment price
fluctuations. This provides a more consistent and accurate understanding of
the price of OXT than sampling the spot price at a given instant.

The second oracle -- currently in development -- aggregates information from
Orchid providers to give users a better estimate of the cost of bandwidth. It
will act as a "secret shopper" that samples bandwidth pricing from all the
providers on Orchid, synthesizing the data into generalized pricing
information for users. This will make it easier for people to estimate the
price of services on the network.

Combined, the two oracles serve a joint function of letting people estimate
the approximate cost of bandwidth on Orchid, both in OXT and U.S. dollars. The
OXT/USD oracle allows people to understand OXT price movements relative to
USD, while the second allows users to estimate how much their bandwidth is
likely to cost. Together, they can be used to project how much service a given
amount of USD is likely to purchase.

Chainlink oracle networks are powered by an aggregation of numerous
independent node operators that source data from multiple independent data
sources. This decentralized framework provides manipulation-resistant data
with strong market coverage of all relevant sources.

"Chainlink's oracles provide valuable information that make the crypto space
more accessible and easier to use," said Orchid Co-Founder and CEO Dr. Steven
Waterhouse. "We're excited to collaborate on these two great projects, which
improve the experience for Orchid users and help us bring Internet privacy to
more people."

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

"We're excited to use Chainlink oracles to provide key off-chain data that
helps ease the use of Orchid Network," states Daniel Kochis, Head of Business
Development on Chainlink. "By aggregating data using a decentralized oracle
network, Chainlink is able to provide robust market coverage for pricing
bandwidth in a manipulation resistant manner."

**About Orchid**

[Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/) takes a new approach to digital privacy with
the first peer-to-peer, incentivized privacy network. On the network, anyone
can buy and sell bandwidth using the Orchid digital currency (OXT). Users can
browse privately and access content without being limited by their geography.
With its decentralized design, multi-hop architecture, and Open Source ethos,
Orchid offers users unprecedented digital privacy in a trustless context.

Learn more at [Orchid.com](https://www.orchid.com/) and follow the project on
Twitter ([@OrchidProtocol](https://twitter.com/orchidprotocol?lang=en)),
[Medium](https://medium.com/orchid-labs), and
[Telegram](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial).

**About Chainlink**

[Chainlink](https://chain.link) is a decentralized oracle network that helps
resolve connectivity issues with smart contracts, enabling users to build
blockchain-based smart contracts that securely access off-chain data feeds,
web APIs, and traditional bank payments. By doing so, Chainlink transforms the
role that smart contracts can play in a vast number of sectors, including
financial services, insurance and supply chain. Chainlink provides highly
secure and reliable oracles to large enterprises
[Google](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/data-analytics/building-
hybrid-blockchain-cloud-applications-with-ethereum-and-google-cloud),
[Oracle](https://www.forbes.com/sites/darrynpollock/2019/07/30/oracle-
building-a-virtuous-cycle-of-innovation-with-start-ups-through-chainlink-and-
blockchain/#34cfc294ffcc), and
[SWIFT](https://create.smartcontract.com/sibos17)) and leading smart contract
development teams such as
[Polkadot/Substrate](https://medium.com/web3foundation/web3-foundation-and-
chainlink-announce-collaboration-df55ed462a3a),
[Synthetix](https://blog.synthetix.io/synthetix-and-chainlink/),
[Loopring](https://medium.com/loopring-protocol/chainlink-and-loopring-
collaborate-on-oracles-for-zkrollup-dex-protocol-c1c8094afc27),
[Aave](https://medium.com/aave/the-aave-oracle-network-powered-by-chainlink-
is-now-live-45bb8a5a8c4e),
[OpenLaw](https://medium.com/@OpenLawOfficial/openlaw-teams-with-chainlink-to-
bring-real-world-info-to-smart-contracts-4e7a3dac80a8),
[Conflux](https://medium.com/@Confluxchain/conflux-partners-with-chainlink-to-
enable-secure-connections-between-the-blockchain-and-75b2ae8ef176), and many
others. Learn more by visiting the [Chainlink website](https://chain.link) or
follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/chainlink) or
[Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/Chainlink/).

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [Partnerships](/tag/partnerships/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%20collaborates%20with%20Chainlink%20to%20build%20USD%20bandwidth-
pricing%20oracles%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
collaborates-with-chainlink%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
collaborates-with-chainlink%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
collaborates-with-chainlink%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

[

#### OXT is Listed on Vauld

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

Jan 14, 2022

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

