![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/orchid-continues-global-expansion-with-gemini-oxt-listing-coming-soon/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/orchid-continues-global-expansion-with-gemini-oxt-listing-coming-soon/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/orchid-continues-global-expansion-with-gemini-oxt-listing-coming-soon/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/orchid-continues-global-expansion-with-gemini-oxt-listing-coming-soon/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/orchid-continues-global-expansion-with-gemini-oxt-listing-coming-soon/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/orchid-continues-global-expansion-with-gemini-oxt-listing-coming-soon/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid Continues Global Expansion With Gemini OXT Listing Coming
Soon](/static/30342a5024ea551cd1fe243d98d86f58/Orchid_BlogImage_Gemini.jpg)

# Orchid Continues Global Expansion With Gemini OXT Listing Coming Soon

Apr 9, 2020  
  

[Gemini](https://gemini.com/), the global cryptocurrency exchange and
custodian launched by Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss in 2015, will soon allow
its users to access Orchid's digital currency, OXT. Gemini customers can
deposit OXT in their account starting Friday, April 24th at 9:30am ET, with
trading to follow shortly thereafter. Partnering with Gemini continues to
advance Orchid's global expansion goals, as the exchange accepts customers
from various countries across the globe. As the world's first licensed ether
exchange, Gemini aligns with the foundation of Orchid's vision of a
decentralized Web 3.0.

Orchid co-founder and CEO Dr. Steven Waterhouse said: "Gemini's established
history as a globally licensed, trusted name in crypto markets make them a
perfect partner for Orchid as we continue making OXT widely available.
Partnering with Gemini, ensures a safe environment, where users can
confidently purchase private bandwidth."

"Orchid gives you back control over your privacy and represents one of the
many promises of crypto. We are delighted to support this mission-oriented
project and make it available to our customers for trading and custody," said
Cameron Winklevoss, President of Gemini.

Orchid is a unique VPN: it is powered by a digital currency, so paying for
bandwidth doesn't require any centralized party. VPN service in the app is
purchased with OXT from the connected account, and you pay only for the
bandwidth that you actually use. New Orchid users can open an account by
creating an Ethereum address using Metamask or another Ethereum wallet, and
purchasing at least $4 in OXT and $1 of ETH from Gemini or another exchange.
Once the account is created, a QR code appears that contains account
credentials that you can share with as many friends, family, or devices as
you'd like. Anyone can copy or scan that account into the app for a 1-step
setup.

This listing continues Orchid's international expansion, following our
listings on Bittrex Global, OKEx, and five new Orchid app language
translations (Mandarin, Russian, Indonesian, Korean, and Japanese) [announced
March 27th](/oxt-now-live-on-okex/).

To learn more about Gemini, please visit them [here](https://gemini.com/).
Download the Orchid app to control your privacy in a new way
[here](https://www.orchid.com/download).

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [Partnerships](/tag/partnerships/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%20Continues%20Global%20Expansion%20With%20Gemini%20OXT%20Listing%20Coming%20Soon%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
continues-global-expansion-with-gemini-oxt-listing-coming-soon%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
continues-global-expansion-with-gemini-oxt-listing-coming-soon%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
continues-global-expansion-with-gemini-oxt-listing-coming-soon%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

[

#### OXT is Listed on Vauld

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

Jan 14, 2022

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

