![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/orchid-launches-second-chainlink-oracle/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/orchid-launches-second-chainlink-oracle/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/orchid-launches-second-chainlink-oracle/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/orchid-launches-second-chainlink-oracle/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/orchid-launches-second-chainlink-oracle/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/orchid-launches-second-chainlink-oracle/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid Launches Second Chainlink Oracle Live on Mainnet to Better Determine
Network
Pricing](/static/1925adf6ce75a592a72443b8eeecb61e/Orchid_BlogImage_LinkOracle.jpg)

# Orchid Launches Second Chainlink Oracle Live on Mainnet to Better Determine
Network Pricing

Sep 21, 2020  
  

Orchid has extended its collaboration with [Chainlink](http://chain.link), a
network of decentralized oracles, with the introduction of a new tool that
makes it easier for Orchid users to determine the price of VPN bandwidth.
Chainlink is the market leader in decentralized oracles, currently securing
over $3 billion in USD value by providing reliable price feeds to many leading
DeFi applications such as Aave and Synthetix.

We are thrilled to announce that our second oracle created together with
Chainlink is now live in the Orchid app. It's designed to aggregate
information from Orchid providers to give users a better estimate of the cost
of bandwidth. It acts as a "secret shopper" that samples bandwidth pricing
from all the providers on Orchid, synthesizing the data into generalized
pricing information for users. This will make it easier for people to estimate
the price of services on the network.

The Orchid app uses this bandwidth price to calibrate some of the payment
rates to ensure the user gets a fair price for bandwidth. Knowing the average
market price of bandwidth is important for determining if any over-charging
has occurred on the network.

The first oracle -- already [up and running](https://feeds.chain.link/) for
months now -- is an OXT/USD price feed, giving users the ability to price VPN
bandwidth in U.S. dollars. Chainlink's decentralized price oracle helps limit
the distorting effect of short-term pricing volatility by smoothing moment-to-
moment price fluctuations. This provides a more consistent and accurate
understanding of the price of OXT than sampling the spot price at a given
instant.

Combined, the two oracles serve a joint function of letting people estimate
the approximate cost of bandwidth on Orchid, both in OXT and U.S. dollars. Put
simply, the OXT/USD oracle allows people to understand OXT price movements
relative to USD, while the second allows users to estimate how much their
bandwidth is likely to cost. Together, they can be used to project how much
service a given amount of USD is likely to purchase. This vastly improves the
user experience on Orchid protocol.

Chainlink oracle networks are powered by an aggregation of numerous
independent, Sybil resistant node operators that source data from multiple
independent, high quality data sources. This decentralized framework provides
highly available, accurate, and manipulation-resistant data with strong market
coverage across all relevant sources.

> "Our ongoing collaboration has led to the development and launch of a second
> tool for Orchid users that leverages Chainlink oracles to obtain a more
> refined estimate on the current OXT cost of VPN bandwidth.," said Orchid Co-
> Founder and CEO Dr. Steven Waterhouse. "We're excited to continue working
> with Chainlink as we constantly strive to improve the experience for Orchid
> users and help bring Internet privacy to more people."

> "We're excited to extend our collaboration with Orchid by helping them
> launch another Chainlink-powered decentralized oracle, one which empowers
> users with key off-chain data to enhance their user experience on the Orchid
> Network," states Daniel Kochis, Head of Chainlink Business Development.
> "Chainlink's decentralized architecture delivers highly accurate and
> manipulation resistant price data for pricing bandwidth, allowing users to
> trust that they are receiving the fair market price for bandwidth."

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

**About Orchid**

[Orchid](http://orchid.com) takes a new approach to digital privacy with the
first peer-to-peer, incentivized privacy network. On the network, anyone can
buy and sell bandwidth using the Orchid digital currency (OXT). Users can
browse privately and access content without being limited by their geography.
With its decentralized design, multi-hop architecture, and Open Source ethos,
Orchid offers users unprecedented digital privacy in a trustless context.

Learn more at [Orchid.com](https://www.orchid.com/) and follow the project on
Twitter ([@OrchidProtocol](https://twitter.com/orchidprotocol?lang=en)),
[Medium](https://medium.com/orchid-labs), and
[Telegram](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial).

**About Chainlink**

If you're a developer and want to quickly get your application connected to
Chainlink Price Reference Data, visit the [developer
documentation](https://docs.chain.link) and join the technical discussion in
[Discord](https://discordapp.com/invite/aSK4zew). If you want to schedule a
call to discuss the integration more in-depth, reach out
[here](https://chainlink.typeform.com/to/gEwrPO).

Chainlink is an open-source blockchain abstraction layer for building and
running decentralized oracle networks that give your smart contract access to
secure and reliable data inputs and outputs. It provides oracles to leading
DeFi applications like Synthetix, Aave, and Bancor; numerous blockchains such
as Ethereum, Polkadot, and Tezos; as well as large enterprises including
Google, Oracle, and SWIFT.

[Website](https://chain.link) | [Twitter](https://twitter.com/chainlink) |
[Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/Chainlink/) |
[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCnjkrlqaWEBSnKZQ71gdyFA) |
[Telegram](https://t.me/chainlinkofficial) |
[Events](https://blog.chain.link/tag/events/) |
[GitHub](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/chainlink) | [Price
Feeds](https://feeds.chain.link/) | [DeFi](https://defi.chain.link/)

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Partnerships](/tag/partnerships/)
  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%20Launches%20Second%20Chainlink%20Oracle%20Live%20on%20Mainnet%20to%20Better%20Determine%20Network%20Pricing%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
launches-second-chainlink-oracle%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
launches-second-chainlink-oracle%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
launches-second-chainlink-oracle%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

[

#### OXT is Listed on Vauld

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

Jan 14, 2022

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

