![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/orchid-is-hopping-over-to-ethdenver/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/orchid-is-hopping-over-to-ethdenver/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/orchid-is-hopping-over-to-ethdenver/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/orchid-is-hopping-over-to-ethdenver/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/orchid-is-hopping-over-to-ethdenver/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/orchid-is-hopping-over-to-ethdenver/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid Is Hopping Over to
ETHDenver](/static/eae236abf31bad0268e62c8d36783195/ETHDenver_Bunnicorn.png)

# Orchid Is Hopping Over to ETHDenver

Feb 3, 2020  
  

At EthDenver this year, we are looking forward to continuing to spread
Orchid’s mission of promoting an open and accessible Internet, where users can
explore with confidence knowing that they have next-level privacy protection.
We can’t wait to share our progress with you in Denver, and learn more about
what others are building in the Web 3.0 ecosystem.

Our booth will be in the “Shill Zone” **Friday, February 14th through Sunday,
the 16th.** The Orchid crypto-powered VPN is now live and available to [start
using today at Orchid.com.](https://www.orchid.com/) At our ETHDenver booth,
we’ll be handing out a limited number of Orchid free trials to help Bufficorns
on a first-come basis join the privacy network and start browsing privately on
the spot.

Throughout the weekend, there will be additional opportunities to meet Orchid
and learn how the dapp uses Ethereum and decentralization to help people get
better control over their digital privacy. Stop by the main stage to catch
Orchid Co-Founder and CEO **[Dr. Steven
Waterhouse](https://www.linkedin.com/in/waterhousephd/)** speak about the
runup and clash between surveillance and privacy technologies.

For hackers who want to learn more about the unique [probabilistic nanopayment
system](/introducing-nanopayments/) that Orchid uses as a layer-2 scaling
solution on top of Ethereum, our engineering team is offering a **workshop on
Saturday at 11:30 am MT.** Orchid engineers Justin Sheek and Nathan Handler
will showcase Orchid’s probabilistic nanopayment system, which allows users to
pay on a per-packet basis, and demonstrate how to start using it in your dapp.

We hope to see you at the event! If you haven’t applied yet, applications are
open: visit [ETHDenver's website](https://www.ethdenver.com/) for more
details.

If you’d like to reach out to us to chat before, during, or after the
Hackathon, you can contact us at contact@orchid.com. Please follow us on
Twitter [@OrchidProtocol](https://twitter.com/orchidprotocol?lang=en) and
[sign up for our newsletter](https://www.orchid.com/#newsletter-signup) to
stay up-to-date with our journey to EthDenver. We can’t wait to see you there!

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Events](/tag/events/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%20Is%20Hopping%20Over%20to%20ETHDenver%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
is-hopping-over-to-ethdenver%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
is-hopping-over-to-ethdenver%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
is-hopping-over-to-ethdenver%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/meet-orchid-virtually-at-ethdenver-2021/)

#### Meet Orchid (virtually) at ETHDenver 2021

](/meet-orchid-virtually-at-ethdenver-2021/)

Feb 4, 2021

](/sheila-warren-joins-priv8s-expanding-roster-of-speakers/)

[

#### Sheila Warren joins Priv8’s expanding roster of speakers

](/sheila-warren-joins-priv8s-expanding-roster-of-speakers/)

Feb 11, 2021

](/ken-liu-joins-priv8s-expanding-roster-of-speakers/)

[

#### Ken Liu joins Priv8’s expanding roster of speakers

](/ken-liu-joins-priv8s-expanding-roster-of-speakers/)

Feb 18, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

