![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/orchid-integrates-with-edge-wallet/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/orchid-integrates-with-edge-wallet/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/orchid-integrates-with-edge-wallet/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/orchid-integrates-with-edge-wallet/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/orchid-integrates-with-edge-wallet/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/orchid-integrates-with-edge-wallet/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid Integrates with Edge
Wallet](/static/f9f0cd9b26bfd214beea938608d05654/Orchid_BlogImage_EdgeWallet.jpg)

# Orchid Integrates with Edge Wallet

May 12, 2020  
  

Today, Orchid announces OXT integration with [Edge](https://edge.app/), a
leading non-custodial wallet platform with nearly one million users worldwide.
Available on iOS and Android, Edge is renowned by its legion of loyal users
for its beautiful interface, security, and seamless incorporation with global
exchanges to provide fiat-to-crypto and crypto-to-crypto exchange services.
Over the last quarter, Edge's user base saw 73% growth, showcasing its rapid
expansion.

Founded in 2014 in San Diego, California, Edge made its mark developing a
secure multi-asset mobile wallet offering privacy, autonomy, and protection,
on personal mobile devices. Edge's client-side encryption secures users'
private keys without leaving their personal device, enabling a truly
decentralized wallet protection. As a result, Edge makes it easy to securely
send, receive, buy, sell, and exchange cryptocurrencies all from your phone.

New Orchid users can open an account by creating an Ethereum address on the
Edge app and purchasing at least $4 in OXT (available[ on
Coinbase](https://www.coinbase.com/price/orchid)) and $1 of ETH. Once the
account is created, a shareable QR code appears that contains account
credentials. Anyone can copy or scan that account into the app for a 1-step
setup.

Paul Puey, Edge Wallet CEO, said: "Orchid's OXT stood out to us as one of the
most powerful and useful tokens to come to market. Every integration we make
brings us closer to fulfilling our mission of broadening access to a variety
of cryptocurrencies. Our team is looking forward to this collaboration in
order to create a better digital ecosystem for all."

Dr. Steven Waterhouse, Orchid's Co-Founder and CEO, said: "It's important for
our users to have a safe and secure way of storing their OXT. We are excited
to partner with Edge, one of the world's leading non-custodial wallets, to
assist in furthering our vision of a private internet."

Download the Orchid app to control your privacy in a new way
[here](https://www.orchid.com/download). To learn more about Edge or download
the app, please visit <https://edge.app/>.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [Partnerships](/tag/partnerships/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%20Integrates%20with%20Edge%20Wallet%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
integrates-with-edge-wallet%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
integrates-with-edge-wallet%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
integrates-with-edge-wallet%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

[

#### OXT is Listed on Vauld

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

Jan 14, 2022

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

