![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-bolehvpn/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-bolehvpn/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-bolehvpn/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-bolehvpn/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-bolehvpn/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/orchid-partners-with-bolehvpn/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid Partners with BolehVPN: More Private Bandwidth for Orchid
Users](/static/4f151f76b9b880936e288c7edd807ba2/Orchid_BlogImage_BolehVPN.jpg)

# Orchid Partners with BolehVPN: More Private Bandwidth for Orchid Users

Feb 11, 2020  
  

It takes many nodes and many service providers to build a truly global secure
private network. That’s why Orchid is thrilled to announce its new partnership
with BolehVPN, a privacy and anonymity service that has operated since 2007.
The alliance with BolehVPN, one of the most trusted names in trusted browsing,
brings the dream of a genuinely secure and private internet closer to
fruition.

BolehVPN’s thousands of users already know and trust the services it offers.
The provider doesn’t maintain user activity logs, and every month it publishes
a warrant canary that lets users know about pending government subpoenas for
customer information.

Users can pay for private bandwidth from BolehVPN on a per-byte basis using
Orchid’s native currency, OXT, available on
[Coinbase](https://www.coinbase.com/price/orchid). Existing BolehVPN
subscribers can use their OpenVPN credentials in the Orchid app, and even
combine them with other privacy providers to construct multi-hop routes.

Reuben Yap, Co-Founder of BolehVPN, said: “BolehVPN is committed to providing
our customers with privacy, security, and freedom from government
surveillance. Orchid shares that vision, and gives our users a new way to
control their privacy. We believe that digital surveillance is the most
important frontier in tech right now, and we’re proud to be working alongside
Orchid.”

Dr. Steven Waterhouse, Orchid’s Co-Founder and CEO said: “I’ve long admired
BolehVPN’s commitment to a free internet, and I look forward to a long
collaboration. Together, we are returning privacy to the web.”

Download the Orchid app to control your privacy in a new way
[here](https://www.orchid.com/download).

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Partnerships](/tag/partnerships/)
  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%20Partners%20with%20BolehVPN%3A%20More%20Private%20Bandwidth%20for%20Orchid%20Users%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
partners-with-bolehvpn%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
partners-with-bolehvpn%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
partners-with-bolehvpn%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

[

#### OXT is Listed on Vauld

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

Jan 14, 2022

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

