![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/orchid-labs-may-2019-update/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/orchid-labs-may-2019-update/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/orchid-labs-may-2019-update/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/orchid-labs-may-2019-update/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/orchid-labs-may-2019-update/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/orchid-labs-may-2019-update/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid Labs May 2019
Update](/static/276f409578b4e770126eabbe34d12dd6/orchid-app.jpeg)

# Orchid Labs May 2019 Update

May 7, 2019  
  

Thank you for following [Orchid Labs](https://orchid.com/). If you are a new
reader, welcome! To get access to our upcoming Beta, [sign up
here](http://eepurl.com/dla1jH) to be the first to know when we go live. In
the meantime, feel free to drop into the [Orchid Telegram
Group](https://t.me/OrchidOfficial) to ask us a question.

## The Orchid Vision

Orchid Labs’ mission is to build open source software that keeps the Internet
open and accessible — a natural resource for everyone, everywhere.

Our first step to fulfill that mission is to create a protocol that governs a
decentralized marketplace with a commodity specification for bandwidth. One
key element of the marketplace is a second layer payment solution,
“Probabilistic Micropayments”, which adds transaction throughput and privacy
to Ethereum. Another is a Medallion system for bandwidth providers that grants
the network Sybil resistance and hardens it to other classes of attacks. More
detail is laid out in our [whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/whitepaper.pdf).

The first application that buys bandwidth on our marketplace will be the
Orchid App (coming soon to iOS and Android!). The Orchid App is an open source
VPN client with added security features, such as multi-hop routing. The goal
with the software is to provide secure access to the open Internet, right in
line with our mission. We also hope to play a part in driving the VPN market
towards more transparency, privacy and fairer pricing.

Other applications can be built that harness the power of our protocol and
bandwidth marketplace. The Orchid App will serve as a first example and we are
excited to discuss potential integrations. Email our team at
[partners@orchid.com](mailto:partners@orchid.com) to talk to us.

As we have been building over the past year, we continue to see concerning
developments across the globe as the Internet splinters and new forms of
communication control are put into place. We believe that our contribution can
help the world become openly connected.

## Progress in 2019

The year is flying by at Orchid and we’ve made considerable headway towards
our goals. Here are some of the highlights:

**Funding**

Orchid Labs announced that the company successfully raised $43 million in its
latest private offering to accredited investors. In total, Orchid Labs has
raised $48 million to keep the Internet open and accessible. We are currently
focusing all effort on our upcoming Beta.

**Probabilistic Micropayments**

The Orchid team originally laid out how Probabilistic Micropayments could work
on Ethereum in 2017, both in our
[whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/whitepaper.pdf) and in a [blog
post](https://medium.com/@gustav.simonsson/ethereum-probabilistic-
micropayments-ae6e6cd85a06). We are happy to report that we have an Etheruem
smart contract implementation of Probabilistic Micropayments and we are
currently integrating these into our client and nodes for Beta.

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

We are also happy to see that other Ethereum projects are using our ideas as
fuel and building their own implementations. Second layer payment solutions
for specific marketplaces can help scale the entire ecosystem and create
products that bring in more users.

**The Orchid App**

![The Orchid App Alpha Prototype](/img/orchid-app.jpeg)

The Orchid App, our VPN client, is functioning on iOS and we have been testing
the application internally as well as demonstrating the mobile app in person
during conferences. The client is able to send packets to our nodes over
multiple hops, demonstrating a key feature that increases security and
privacy.

**Orchid Node**

We have an implementation functioning on Mac OS and Linux, relaying client
traffic over WebRTC and encrypted tunnels.

**New Website Launch**

![www.orchid.com](www-orchid-com.png)

We updated our brand and company narrative in February to something we believe
frames what we are building in the correct light — a protected natural
resource for everyone, everywhere.

## Upcoming Beta Release

To get access to our upcoming Beta, [sign up here](http://eepurl.com/dla1jH)
to be the first to know when we go live.

Thank you for your support. We’re excited for what this year holds and hope
that you’ll join us in our mission to keep the Internet open and accessible.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [VPN](/tag/vpn/)
  * [Decentralization](/tag/decentralization/)
  * [Blockchain](/tag/blockchain/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%20Labs%20May%202019%20Update%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
labs-may-2019-update%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
labs-may-2019-update%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
labs-may-2019-update%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/miko-matsumura-on-creating-immortal-software/)

#### Miko Matsumura on Creating “Immortal Software”

](/miko-matsumura-on-creating-immortal-software/)

Mar 8, 2021

](/marvin-tong-on-battling-the-data-empire-with-privacy-and-decentralization/)

[

#### Marvin Tong on Battling the “Data Empire” with Privacy and
Decentralization

](/marvin-tong-on-battling-the-data-empire-with-privacy-and-decentralization/)

Mar 22, 2021

](/emin-gn-sirer-on-the-asteroid-heading-for-technological-dinosaurs/)

[

#### Emin Gün Sirer on the Asteroid Heading for Technological Dinosaurs

](/emin-gn-sirer-on-the-asteroid-heading-for-technological-dinosaurs/)

Apr 12, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

