![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/orchid-is-hoppy-to-announce-participation-in-consensus-distributed/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/orchid-is-hoppy-to-announce-participation-in-consensus-distributed/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/orchid-is-hoppy-to-announce-participation-in-consensus-distributed/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/orchid-is-hoppy-to-announce-participation-in-consensus-distributed/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/orchid-is-hoppy-to-announce-participation-in-consensus-distributed/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/orchid-is-hoppy-to-announce-participation-in-consensus-distributed/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid Is Hoppy to Announce Participation in Consensus:
Distributed](/static/48b6ca5eb9851f13db258daaed952e0f/Orchid_BlogImage_ConsensusDist.jpg)

# Orchid Is Hoppy to Announce Participation in Consensus: Distributed

May 5, 2020  
  

The [Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/) team will be returning to Consensus this
May ---- and in a whole new format!

CoinDesk's annual conference in New York City has long been a focal point for
the blockchain industry and community. This year, it has been reformatted as a
virtual event and given a new name: "Consensus: Distributed." While throngs of
digital currency enthusiasts may not be descending in-person upon Times
Square, Consensus: Distributed is expected to bring together thousands of
attendees interested in blockchain and other forward-thinking technologies.

At Orchid, it's our mission to help solve a crucial problem shared by billions
of people worldwide: how to maintain privacy in an era of "surveillance
capitalism." With support from our community, we have developed a peer-to-peer
privacy bandwidth marketplace powered by blockchain. We can't wait to step
onto the big stage and share with you the strides Orchid has taken already in
2020 in promoting an open and accessible Internet.

We are honored that the organizers of Consensus: Distributed have hand-picked
Orchid for inclusion in this year's boldest initiative: "Foundations," a new
program that gives the most impactful blockchain-related projects their own
mini-conference as a showcase to the community. This will give our team the
opportunity to customize our programming with a series of sessions. Watch this
space and stay tuned for more details about what we will be covering and how
you can participate in the big event, which starts for Orchid on **Monday, May
11th at 10:00 AM.**

If you'd like to reach out to us to chat before, during, or after Consensus:
Distributed, you can contact us at contact@orchid.com. Please follow us on
Twitter [@OrchidProtocol](https://twitter.com/orchidprotocol?lang=en) and
[sign up for our newsletter](https://www.orchid.com/#newsletter-signup) to
stay up-to-date with our journey to Consensus Distributed. We can't wait to
see you at the event.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Events](/tag/events/)
  * [Blockchain](/tag/blockchain/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%20Is%20Hoppy%20to%20Announce%20Participation%20in%20Consensus%3A%20Distributed%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
is-hoppy-to-announce-participation-in-consensus-distributed%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
is-hoppy-to-announce-participation-in-consensus-distributed%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
is-hoppy-to-announce-participation-in-consensus-distributed%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/rohan-grey-joins-priv8s-expanding-roster-of-speakers/)

#### Rohan Grey joins Priv8’s expanding roster of speakers

](/rohan-grey-joins-priv8s-expanding-roster-of-speakers/)

Mar 9, 2021

](/imperviouss-matthew-zipkin-joins-priv8s-expanding-roster-of-speakers/)

[

#### Impervious’s Matthew Zipkin Joins Priv8’s Expanding Roster of Speakers

](/imperviouss-matthew-zipkin-joins-priv8s-expanding-roster-of-speakers/)

Oct 28, 2021

](/purseios-christopher-jeffrey-will-speak-at-priv8/)

[

#### Purse.io’s Christopher Jeffrey Will Speak at Priv8

](/purseios-christopher-jeffrey-will-speak-at-priv8/)

Oct 29, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

