![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/orchid-attends-first-virtual-new-york-blockchain-week/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/orchid-attends-first-virtual-new-york-blockchain-week/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/orchid-attends-first-virtual-new-york-blockchain-week/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/orchid-attends-first-virtual-new-york-blockchain-week/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/orchid-attends-first-virtual-new-york-blockchain-week/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/orchid-attends-first-virtual-new-york-blockchain-week/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid attends first Virtual New York Blockchain
Week](/static/a3711ae51622fc74f9abfc25ce5abe8a/Orchid_BlogImage_VNYBW.jpg)

# Orchid attends first Virtual New York Blockchain Week

May 14, 2020  
  

This past week the Orchid team participated in the first Virtual New York
Blockchain Week. Amid unprecedented global conditions we saw and met with many
promising people and projects. Here's a recap of what we have been up to:

**Ethereal Virtual Summit**

The first event on the docket was Ethereal, which saw strong (virtual)
attendance by developers, artists, entrepreneurs, and investors. Our CEO and
co-founder Dr. Steven Waterhouse (Seven) elaborated on surveillance
capitalism, and how to reclaim your privacy, especially during these
unprecedented circumstances of a global pandemic lockdown.

**Consensus: Distributed**

Next up was the week's largest event, this year dubbed Consensus: Distributed.
Orchid kicked off the event with a custom Foundations session on Monday, May
11th. The session began with an informative presentation by Seven about the
challenges of the current digital privacy landscape, and how Orchid's
incentivized peer-to-peer privacy network is making the Internet a freer and
more open place. Later on, Orchid hosted an enlightening Q&A session led by
CoinGecko Co-founder Bobby Ong, where Seven further discussed the "cat and
mouse" dynamic that exists between privacy and surveillance tools. He
highlighted the role Orchid plays in shifting that dynamic to return the
control back to internet users.

![](/img/uploads/blockchain-wrappup-01.jpg)

Following the Q&A,Orchid supporters [Jehan
Chu](https://twitter.com/collectionist) from [Kenetic
Capital](https://kenetic.capital/) and [Matthew
Roszak](https://twitter.com/MatthewRoszak) from [Bloq](https://www.bloq.com/)
participated in a roundtable discussion moderated by Amanda Cassatt. The
participants delved into the purpose of VPNs and the next evolutionary stage
of the Internet. Jehan spoke passionately about the everyday use case for
VPN's, and Matthew expressed enthusiasm towards Orchid's product being live
and ready to download today.

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

![](/img/uploads/blockchain-wrappup-02.jpg)

Orchid's participation in Consensus continued with a discussion titled
Weighing Privacy vs. the Public Good in which Seven served as a panelist. He
was joined by former [ACLU](https://twitter.com/ACLU) President and New York
Law School Professor Nadine Strossen and CEO and Co-Founder of NYM [Harry
Halpin](https://twitter.com/harryhalpin). It was exciting for Orchid to be a
part of this important conversation around internet privacy before and after
COVID-19. One hot topic discussed was the rise of coronavirus contact tracing
apps, and how the general public should approach with caution given the
liberties you give up when using. In Seven's words:

> "One of the challenges is that even the decentralized design of Apple and
> Google, inspired by other people's work, is going to have a lot of
> resistance in the U.S. I don't think people will want to download anything,
> especially from someone like Google, if it is backing it. Apple is a little
> bit more trusted and I think it would be interesting to see, but I am not
> optimistic about the adoption of something like this."

![](/img/uploads/blockchain-wrappup-03.jpg)

The Orchid team is excited to have been able to participate in these
innovative -- and perhaps future-defining -- virtual conferences, and we look
forward to seeing how the events space continues to evolve. Please follow us
on Twitter [@OrchidProtocol](https://twitter.com/orchidprotocol?lang=en) and
[sign up for our newsletter](https://www.orchid.com/#newsletter-signup) to
stay up-to-date with our presence at upcoming events!

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [Events](/tag/events/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%20attends%20first%20Virtual%20New%20York%20Blockchain%20Week%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
attends-first-virtual-new-york-blockchain-week%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
attends-first-virtual-new-york-blockchain-week%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Forchid-
attends-first-virtual-new-york-blockchain-week%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/the-priv8-virtual-privacy-summit-returns-with-featured-speaker-glenn-
greenwald/)

#### The Priv8 Virtual Privacy Summit Returns with Featured Speaker Glenn
Greenwald

](/the-priv8-virtual-privacy-summit-returns-with-featured-speaker-glenn-
greenwald/)

Oct 12, 2021

](/meet-orchid-virtually-at-ethdenver-2021/)

[

#### Meet Orchid (virtually) at ETHDenver 2021

](/meet-orchid-virtually-at-ethdenver-2021/)

Feb 4, 2021

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

[

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

