![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/recap-of-recent-events/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/recap-of-recent-events/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/recap-of-recent-events/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/recap-of-recent-events/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/recap-of-recent-events/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/recap-of-recent-events/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Orchid: Recap of Recent
Events](/static/9ee25377648fef45fa403a66b786120b/2019-recap.jpg)

# Orchid: Recap of Recent Events

Nov 14, 2019  
  

From the Bay Area to Columbus, Ohio, the team at Orchid has enjoyed a
whirlwind of events these past few weeks. Here’s a recap of what we’ve been up
to:

## Blockstack Summit – Oct. 23rd

The 4th annual [summit](https://summit.blockstack.org/) hosted by Blockstack
brought together an eclectic group of thought leaders, developers and
entrepreneurs for a full day of interesting talks under the overarching theme
of [“Can’t be evil.”](https://medium.com/@muneeb/cant-be-evil-bc5ec16c6306)
Decentralization was a major talking point throughout, and we especially
enjoyed the great conversations sparked by the various presentations of the
day.

A highlight of the event was the panel discussion titled _The Evolution of
Capitalism_ , moderated by David Wachsman, CEO of Wachsman. He was joined on
the main stage by Richard Muirhead, founding partner of Fabric Ventures, and
our own CEO, Dr. Steven Waterhouse. The panel provided some interesting scope
for discussion on a topic near and dear to our hearts here at Orchid, and
we’re so pleased to have been able to participate.

## San Francisco Blockchain Week – Oct. 28th to Nov. 1st

Opening with the CryptoEconomics Security Conference (CESC), [San Francisco
Blockchain Week 2019](https://sfblockchainweek.io/agenda) was another action-
packed event with plenty to experience and learn. We had a blast meeting all
the people who stopped by our booth at [CESC](https://cesc.io/) and the
Blockchain Career Fair at UC Berkeley; it was a great opportunity to connect
with some bright minds and share what the Orchid Protocol is all about!

Things kicked into high gear on Tuesday night for our Follow the White Rabbit
to Wonderland SFBW afterparty. Held at Hotel San Francisco, it was an evening
to let loose and enjoy some good music, drinks and great company—not to
mention some fun costumes in the spirit of Lewis Carroll’s fantastic tale!

Epicenter, SF Blockchain Week’s main event, followed from October 31st to
November 1st. Top blockchain developers, investors and academics convened for
an impressive series of talks, panel discussions and workshops geared toward
every interest imaginable.

One session we found particularly compelling was the panel discussion How Will
Cryptocurrencies Help Protect Human Rights Under Dictatorial Regimes? Alex
Gladstein of the Human Rights Foundation affirmed that blockchain technology
has a major role to play in increasing freedom around the world. At Orchid, we
wholeheartedly [agree](https://medium.com/orchid-labs/why-we-need-a-better-
vpn-aebe8c352984).

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

During the last day of SFBW, our CEO Dr. Steven Waterhouse joined Muneeb Ali
of Blockstack and Jeremy Welch of Casa for a fireside chat titled Freedom of
Ownership, where they discussed Web3 and users owning their data—a timely
topic given the growing concern about data privacy worldwide.

## Ohio LinuxFest – Nov. 1st & 2nd

“Open source means open to all,” according to the organizers of [Ohio
LinuxFest](https://ohiolinux.org/). The annual technology conference and expo,
held in Columbus, Ohio, celebrates the Linux operating system and other free
and open source hardware and software projects—and in accordance with its
open-source values, offers basic admission free of charge.

At Orchid Labs, we share this core belief in accessibility and transparency in
tech (which is why Orchid is [100% open source
software](https://www.orchid.com/)). Our own Developer Advocate, Nathan
Handler, attended LinuxFest this year and manned a booth at the expo,
spreading the word about the work we’re doing. He also held two talks on
November 2nd: one on the basics of blockchain and how developers are using it,
and another about the power of decentralization to offer users better privacy.

Still going strong in its 17th year, Ohio LinuxFest promises another awesome
event in 2020! We’re proud to be a part of this community of freedom-loving
professionals.

## State of Tokens – Nov. 6th

For anyone interested in blockchain, cryptocurrencies and STOs, the State of
Tokens event in Palo Alto was a great opportunity to network, learn a little
something new, and check out some demo pitches from startups in the industry.

Tegan Kline, head of international business development and investor relations
at Orchid, brought her expertise to the evening’s panel discussion about the
state of tokens and token investing today. Moderated by Silicon Valley
journalist Mark Albertson, the discussion included a number of other industry
leaders and subject matter experts: Joshua Rivera, Chief Compliance Officer
and general counsel at Blockchain Capital; Jamie Finn, co-founder of
Securitize; Andrea Lo, head of business development at Harbor; Mike Zajko,
head of sales at CoinList; and Mason Borda, CEO of TokenSoft.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Events](/tag/events/)
  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Orchid%3A%20Recap%20of%20Recent%20Events%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Frecap-
of-recent-events%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Frecap-
of-recent-events%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Frecap-
of-recent-events%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/the-priv8-virtual-privacy-summit-returns-with-featured-speaker-glenn-
greenwald/)

#### The Priv8 Virtual Privacy Summit Returns with Featured Speaker Glenn
Greenwald

](/the-priv8-virtual-privacy-summit-returns-with-featured-speaker-glenn-
greenwald/)

Oct 12, 2021

](/meet-orchid-virtually-at-ethdenver-2021/)

[

#### Meet Orchid (virtually) at ETHDenver 2021

](/meet-orchid-virtually-at-ethdenver-2021/)

Feb 4, 2021

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

[

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

