[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Our partnership with Dia Data

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Our partnership with Dia Data

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Jamie-Burke-Hi-
Res-150x150.png)

July 2020

Posted by

Jamie Burke

CEO and Founder

 ...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/jamie-burke/)

Dia Data was one of the star performers to come out of our **Base Camp
Accelerator** (2019, **Fall Cohort)** , an accelerator format we launched in
the same year dedicated to transformational Web 3.0 businesses from around the
world. We worked with them for three intense months giving them access to our
now 7-year-old venture platform of experts, mentors, and rich ecosystem to
help them go from zero to one.

For that cohort, they were only one of four selected from hundreds of
applicants. At a high level, they were chosen because of a strong fit with our
belief that Decentralised Finance (DeFi) will eat the world and transform
traditional financial products into trustless, transparent protocols, run
without intermediaries. At the heart of that revolution powered by DLT, smart
contracts and oracles is data, its trustworthiness, and quality. If we trust
this new financial system to be run by code we need to ensure the data that
drives its decisions is trustful.

Their unique proposition is to democratize the provision, access, and usage of
digital financial asset data, by the wisdom and power of the crowd, similar to
the critical role Wikipedia has played to the Web more generally. Their
mission is to make financial data standardised, open-source and accessible to
everyone, and on the same terms.

The exponential growth of projects like Maker, AAVE, Compound and Synthetix
have created a growing demand for oracles to deliver critical fundamental data
like asset prices. These oracles are one of the foundational building blocks
for a DeFi ecosystem to function in an orderly way, professionalise and grow;
to meet the requirements of a maturing market and DeFi’s true promise of
transparency and independence.

To deliver on this vision DIA is creating an open-source, crowd-driven
platform powered by blockchain technology that enables the supply, sharing and
use of digital financial assets and other financial data. DIA is designed for
individuals and entities that rely on accurate financial market data in their
decision making, or who seek to gain a trading advantage from accurate digital
financial assets data. This includes individual traders, financial services
businesses, family offices, funds, financial institutions, and specialised app
developers.

Incumbent financial information vendors often offer proprietary products
without transparency and only little digital financial asset data. Existing
information platforms rarely provide externally validated or enhanced data and
their centralized information feeds are not tracked intelligently to ensure
authenticity.

If DIA can improve the trustworthiness of DeFi and its data and make it
available and more easily consumable, as they are doing in an easy to use API,
they will drive trillions of dollars of capital inflow from institutions over
the coming years and we will see the creation of billion-dollar financial
products like indices, both for crypto and beyond, looking for yield in a
complex macroeconomic environment. We believe this is a multi-billion dollar
opportunity and one DIA and their team of seasoned financial service
professionals and technologists are well-positioned to capture. As both an
equity investor in DIA (the company) and the largest DIA token holder outside
of the foundation itself we are excited to work with the team on unlocking
what we hope to be explosive growth over the next decade.

To read more about DIA and their upcoming plans head to
[https://diadata.org/](https://diadata.org/) and read more
[https://medium.com/dia-insights](https://medium.com/dia-insights)

To hear about our current Base Camp cohort and follow their progress sign up
to our newsletter: [https://outlierventures.io/sign-
up/](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/DIA-background-
snipe-4.jpg)

###### **DISCLAIMER**

###### This post (the “ **Post** ”) has been prepared, published and
distributed by Outlier Capital LLP (“ **Outlier Ventures** ”). Outlier Capital
LLP is registered in England and Wales, company registration number OC404177.

###### No undertaking, warranty or other assurance is given, and none should
be implied, as to, and no reliance should be placed on, the accuracy,
completeness or fairness of the information or opinions contained in this
Post. The information contained in the Post is not subject to completion,
alteration and verification nor should it be assumed that the information in
the Post will be updated. The information contained in the Post has not been
verified by Outlier Ventures or any of its associates or affiliates.

######  The Post should not be considered a recommendation by Outlier Ventures
or any of its directors, officers, employees, agents or advisers in connection
with any purchase of or subscription for securities or otherwise. Recipients
should not construe the contents of this Post as legal, tax, regulatory,
financial, investment, trading or accounting advice or services and are urged
to consult with their own advisers in relation to such matters. The
information contained in the Post has been prepared purely for informational
purposes. Any person requesting to contact a company through Outlier Ventures
does so at their own risk and is solely responsible for conducting any legal,
accounting or due diligence review. The information contained in the Post has
not been approved by the Financial Conduct Authority.

###### Any forecasts, opinions, estimates and projections contained in the
Post constitute the judgement of Outlier Ventures and are provided for
illustrative purposes only. No warranty (express or implied) is or will be
made or given in relation to, and (except in the case of willful fraud) no
responsibility or liability is or will be accepted by Outlier Ventures or any
of its directors, officers, employees, agents or advisers in respect of, such
forecasts, opinions, estimates and projections or their achievement or
reasonableness. In all cases persons should conduct their own investigation
and analysis of the information in the Post.

###### This Post may provide the addresses of, or contain hyperlinks to,
websites. Except to the extent to which the report refers to website material
of Outlier Ventures, Outlier Ventures has not reviewed any such site and takes
no responsibility for the content contained therein. Such address or hyperlink
(including addresses or hyperlinks to Outlier Venture’s own website material)
is provided solely for your convenience and information and the content of any
such website does not in any way form part of this document. Accessing such
website or following such link through this report or Outlier Venutre’s
website shall be at your own risk.



Posted by Jamie Burke - July 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Jamie-Burke-Hi-
Res-150x150.png)

July 2020

Posted by

Jamie Burke

CEO and Founder

 ...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/jamie-burke/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

