[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Why Outlier Ventures Invested in Alkemi

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Outlier Ventures Invests in Alkemi

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/06/ov_dominic.jpg)

November 2019

Posted by

Dominic Moore

Head of Growth

Dominic brings over 15 years of experience in digital transformation
consulting with c-suite execs at global blue chips and in the last few years
as a founder and partnering with deep tech startups....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=2452)

# Investing in the liquidity super highway to power the next generation of
capital markets

Posted by Dominic Moore - November 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/06/ov_dominic.jpg)

November 2019

Posted by

Dominic Moore

Head of Growth

Dominic brings over 15 years of experience in digital transformation
consulting with c-suite execs at global blue chips and in the last few years
as a founder and partnering with deep tech startups....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=2452)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/asm-and-ov-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-asm/) [Why we
invested in Altered State Machine (ASM)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-
invested-in-asm/)

April 2022  
Jamie Burke

[ ![OutlierVenturesInvestsinLumerin](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/03/why-we-invested-in-lumerin-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-lumerin/) [Why
we invested in Lumerin](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-
lumerin/)

March 2022  
Jamie Burke

Two seismic problems exist in finance. Within more traditional capital markets
& banking, the market is encumbered by out-moded legacy infrastructure. Within
the the more emergent digital assetization arena the markets are inefficient
due to a lack of liquidity.



So we are delighted to confirm, Outlier Ventures are the lead advisor and an
investor in Alkemi, an open-source prime brokerage platform who are addressing
a $4 billion immediate market opportunity arising from these structural
issues. Bridging the gap between traditional capital markets and the rapidly
accelerating programmable capital era.



Alkemi recently excelled at NYC TechStars and count Xpring, Consensys
(Coven.VC) and ARC Fund as backers. The core team already have great
experience and a well established network within traditional capital markets
coupled with a deep understanding of the security necessary to build
decentralized infrastructure.



### Partnerships are already in place



Outlier Ventures includes experienced senior financial services and capital
markets professionals from JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs and Chicago Mercantile
Exchange. By capitalising on ours & their own network, Alkemi are already
close to announcing some key partnerships. Alkemi will also be uniquely
positioned to attract liquidity from the multiple tokenised protocols Outlier
Ventures have already partnered with along with their rapidly expanding
Diffusion network.



### Capitalising on macro-trends



Over the last few years, we have been observing how capital is being deployed
into Fintech which essentially is just slicing the same old data into utility
enriched user experiences for consumers. The punitive levels of back-office
settlement, compliance and data management remain because how the underlying
assets are manufactured does not change. This should be a major concern when
there is a clearly established trend within markets underpinned by digital
technology for the manufacturing cost to head to as close to zero as possible.



Digital technology completely transformed how the music industry is
manufactured from compact disc to digital, from $’s to fractions of a penny
and the same forces are continuing apace to disrupt bricks & mortar retail
through DTC. This is already evidenced in capital markets by trading fees
plummeting to around 20 basis points from much loftier highs. Coupled with
negative interest rates and all the big tech companies launching into the
payment space, the battleground for omnipotence has never been harder fought.



Which is why at Outlier we are focussed on the deeper infrastructure that will
underpin this next frontier of finance. Programmable assets are very much here
to stay because 1) they solve the double spend problem 2) contracts can be
exchanged automatically 3) securities can be settled immediately 4) everything
is fully auditable & 5) taxable to mention just a few. Wiping hundreds of
millions of $’s annually out of the back office budgets within the biggest
institutions. Hence why the likes of Fidelity, JP Morgan, Santander and
hundreds of others have been working so hard to keep up to date:

![Outlier Ventures Invests in Alkemi Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/11/Alkemi_graph_digital_assets.png)

The rate of growth of digital assets is undeniably impressive, buoyed by the
fact that they are cheaper, faster and better. The single biggest factor
holding them back is that there is still not a regulated digital currency to
facilitate on & off ramps at industrial scale.



### Could China be the tipping point?



Getting the investment timing right cannot be understated. All the major
central banks have had their heads turned by digital currencies. With the 2nd
largest economy in the world making some very large macro plays to support
their Belt & Road mega project, the smart money is on China being the first to
adopt a national digital currency. The Digital Currency Electronic Payment is
already in place with news leaking about a 2020 launch being in play.



This is part of the reason Outlier Ventures are running a 10 day 3 city
Diffusion Tour in China in December which Alkemi are a key partner.



We also agree with the likes of Ray Dalio that a paradigm shift is happening
in the world. One which will net out with developed economies having far fewer
banks who are completely global. With the power shifting towards asset holders
who are capable of securely supporting the widest assortment of digital assets
and the plumbing necessary to enable them to be exchanged freely.



### What exactly does Alkemi deliver?



Alkemi’s platform provides the non-custodial infrastructure for digital assets
to connect with exchanges. Facilitating open access to liquidity and
streamlined settlement for our customers (e.g. institutional capital
allocators) and partners (exchange venues & third party providers), solving
the problem of digital asset market inefficiency.



Their modular infrastructure technology platform is powered by decentralized
liquidity with three applications at the core: 1) Smart Order Router; 2)
Arbitrage Engine; and 3) Clearing and Settlement:

![Outlier Ventures Invests in Alkemi Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/11/Alkemi_3_modules.png)

Powered by decentralized liquidity pools, Alkemi’s applications help our
customers connect to our partners more seamlessly and efficiently, thus
driving increased opportunity for return.



### How does this support institutional adoption?



For large institutions looking to enter the space today, the alternative is to
enter and get off through OTC markets. Institutional facing trading products
start at a size of $50,000 for a block and can scale up to $100 million in
volume. Their execution today remains largely manual and cannot offer large
sums within a matter of minutes. Bids and asks take time to be filled through
spot exchanges today. This is at the crux of the problem Alkemi is looking to
solve. Through capital that is parked on multiple spot exchanges, Alkemi can
fill in an institution’s order in a matter of minutes with a guaranteed rate.
Settlements are done on an IOU basis. That is, a buyer’s funds does not have
to be at an exchange for it to be filled. It can simply be relayed to Alkemi
who can fill it on their behalf. Since liquidity is sourced from multiple
exchanges, it should reduce the spread a fund pays for coming on-board or
getting off digital assets.

Alkemi on the other hand benefits from two components. By driving liquidity
across multiple exchanges, it is able to maintain price parity for new
institutional clients looking to come towards exchange. That is, whenever
there is a difference in price across exchanges, Alkemi either buys or sells
to bring the price to a common level on prominent exchanges. Although
arbitrage bots exist today, they do not have the amount of capital Alkemi will
be able to deploy or the exchange relationships Alkemi will hold when it is
launched. So in some sense, Alkemi brings efficiency to the markets in the
following ways:

  * Reduction of spreads on multiple exchanges by being an active market-maker reducing price differences on spot prices
  * Reducing flash-crashes and steep spreads for large orders by being able to source liquidity from multiple exchanges 
  * Providing much needed liquidity to large players looking to buy or sell through being an active market maker with one of the deepest order books in the market today 



### How does Alkemi fit within The Convergence Stack?



The convergence stack generates monetary value through digital assets. Today
those assets trade through inefficient markets with little or no on-ramps for
large institutions to engage with them without taking counterparty or
custodial risk. Alkemi enables a new generation of investors to have access to
digital assets that are crucial to the convergence stack through reducing
slippage on exchanges and increasing liquidity. In other words, Alkemi is the
routing layer for value within the stack



Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

