[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Outlier Ventures named as an Industry Game Changer finalist in the Growth
Investor Awards 2018

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

[mc4wp_form id='4618']

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/blog-
post-9.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/) [Lawrence Lundy
Joins Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/)

April 2016  

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/blog-
post-7.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-vc-to-
hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/) [Outlier
Ventures Becomes First VC To Hire ‘Head of Crypto-Economics’ With Appointment
of Eden Dhaliwal](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-
vc-to-hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/)

August 2017  

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Outlier Ventures named as an Industry Game Changer finalist in the Growth
Investor Awards 2018

Posted by Outlier Ventures named as an Industry Game Changer finalist in the
Growth Investor Awards 2018 - August 2018

[
__](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-named-as-a-industry-game-changer-finalist-in-the-growth-investor-
awards-2018) [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-named-as-a-industry-game-changer-finalist-in-the-growth-investor-
awards-2018&title=Outlier Ventures named as an Industry Game Changer finalist
in the Growth Investor Awards 2018) [
__](https://twitter.com/share?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-
named-as-a-industry-game-changer-finalist-in-the-growth-investor-
awards-2018&text=Outlier Ventures named as an Industry Game Changer finalist
in the Growth Investor Awards 2018) [
__](https://telegram.me/share/url?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-named-as-a-industry-game-changer-finalist-in-the-growth-investor-
awards-2018&text=Outlier Ventures named as an Industry Game Changer finalist
in the Growth Investor Awards 2018)

![Outlier Ventures named as an Industry Game Changer finalist in the Growth
Investor Awards 2018 Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/08/GIA-2018-Finalist-twitter-card_Industry-Game-
Changer.jpg)



  * **Outlier Ventures is named an Industry Game Changer finalist at the fourth annual Growth Investor Awards 2018, sponsored by MICAP.**

  * Winners will be announced at a black-tie dinner for 450 guests, now in its fourth year, on Wednesday November 7 at Royal Lancaster Hotel, London.

  * Visit [growthinvestorawards.com/finalists](http://www.growthinvestorawards.com/finalists) for a full list of all finalists



Competing with a record number of entrants, **Outlier Ventures** has impressed
the judges and scooped a place in the final of the Industry Game Changer award
at the Growth Investor Awards 2018.

The Industry Game Changer category celebrates individuals, companies,
platforms or products that have demonstrably improved practice, perception or
engagement in the alternative investment industry.

**Outlier Ventures** will compete in the Industry Game Changer category
alongside five other finalists: **Grant Thornton** , **Seedrs** , **Symvan
Capital** , **Syndicate Room** and **Wealth Club**.

The winner will be announced at an exclusive black-tie awards dinner for 450
guests on Wednesday November 7 at the Royal Lancaster Hotel in London.

In 2017, Seedrs was crowned the Industry Game Changer, receiving praise not
only for its current role for SMEs in the crowdfunding market, but creating
great investment opportunities for an entirely new generation of investors.

**Andrew Marris, founder and managing director of MICAP, commented:**

“As competition intensifies in the alternative investment space, both
challengers and established players are driving much needed innovation. MICAP
is designed to help advisers navigate this evolving landscape, so we are
delighted to sponsor the Industry Game Changer award again this year.”  

**Guy Tolhurst, managing director of Intelligent Partnership, said:**

“The Growth Investor Awards have rightly become a major focal point in the the
UK’s SME investment community calendar. During one evening of the year, we
come together to celebrate a whole year of vibrant energy, dedication and
groundbreaking stories.

“We’ll celebrate the inspiring individuals and truly leading organisations as
winners for their ability, bravery and commitment in helping UK entrepreneurs
power Britain’s economic growth. Only one contestant can be a winner, so I’d
like so send my best wishes to everyone in the running for this year’s
trophy.”

Over the summer, the shortlisted finalists will go to a second round of
judging by a minimum of three experts drawn from an independent panel of more
than 35 judges.

All of the judges’ scores will be collated to determine the winner in each
category. A personalised feedback and benchmarking report will be given to all
finalists, providing them with valuable insight on areas of improvement.

The awards programme is guided by an Advisory Board including Irene Graham,
CEO of the ScaleUp Institute; Luke Johnson, Chairman of Risk Capital Partners;
Claire Cockerton, Founder and Ambassador of Innovate Finance; Tim Hames,
Director General of the British Private Equity and Venture Capital Association
(BVCA); Emma Jones MBE, CEO of Enterprise Nation; Simon Devonshire OBE, former
Entrepreneur in Residence at BEIS; and Michael Hayman MBE, Co-founder of Seven
Hills.

Launched in 2015, the Growth Investor Awards celebrate companies and
individuals involved in putting investment to work in high-potential
businesses. The awards honour those providing or helping to source investment
and leading players that are helping to optimise growth capital for scaling UK
companies.

Information about previous award winners, judges and selection criteria for
each award can be found at[
growthinvestorawards.com](http://www.growthinvestorawards.com/).



![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

