[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Outlier Ventures becomes strategic investor in Ocean Protocol

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

[mc4wp_form id='4618']

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/blog-
post-9.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/) [Lawrence Lundy
Joins Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/)

April 2016  

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/blog-
post-7.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-vc-to-
hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/) [Outlier
Ventures Becomes First VC To Hire ‘Head of Crypto-Economics’ With Appointment
of Eden Dhaliwal](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-
vc-to-hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/)

August 2017  

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Outlier Ventures becomes strategic investor in Ocean Protocol

Posted by Outlier Ventures becomes strategic investor in Ocean Protocol -
December 2017

[
__](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://outlierventures.io/strategic-
investor-ocean-protocol) [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://outlierventures.io/strategic-
investor-ocean-protocol&title=Outlier Ventures becomes strategic investor in
Ocean Protocol) [
__](https://twitter.com/share?url=https://outlierventures.io/strategic-
investor-ocean-protocol&text=Outlier Ventures becomes strategic investor in
Ocean Protocol) [
__](https://telegram.me/share/url?url=https://outlierventures.io/strategic-
investor-ocean-protocol&text=Outlier Ventures becomes strategic investor in
Ocean Protocol)

_Outlier becomes strategic partner to support Ocean in building Decentralized
Data Exchange Protocol to Unlock Data for AI_

London (20 December 2017) -- Leading blockchain and Web 3.0 venture capital
firm Outlier Ventures has today announced it has become strategic partner and
investor in Ocean Protocol, the decentralised data exchange in development
with the mission to unlock the power of data for AI.

Ocean Protocol is a decentralized data exchange protocol that lets people
share and monetize data while guaranteeing control, auditability, transparency
and compliance to all actors involved. The protocol provides the underlying
technical foundation that data marketplaces need to connect data providers
with data consumers in a trusted environment. It nurtures a data ecosystem and
community.

Outlier Ventures has made a significant investment in Ocean, and will use its
platform of internal expertise and partner network of corporate and academic
institutions to support the development of the protocol and its developer
ecosystem.

Jamie Burke, CEO, Outlier Ventures stated: “We have known and respected Trent
and the team for many years and the work they have done at Ascribe, BigchainDB
and IPDB. We are proud to join them in this next step in their commitment to
building the critical infrastructure for the next stage of the internet. Not
only are the team highly credible, Ocean is yet another European initiative
that speaks directly to Outlier Ventures’ ‘Convergence Thesis’; this time
combining decentralised ledger technologies with AI. Where Sovrin allowed for
identity of ‘things’ and IOTA provided the infrastructure for securing IoT
devices and their data, Ocean Protocol provides the market for individuals and
organisations to share that data with artificial intelligence and be
compensated. It is no coincidence we see a very complimentary fit between the
all three of these and the rest of our growing portfolio.”

As Trent McConaghy, Founder of Ocean Protocol states: “We’ve been
collaborating with Outlier Ventures extensively in the past year and I’m very
pleased that they’ve placed their confidence into the team to deliver on an
obvious need to unlock the world’s data.”

McConaghy continues: “Because data is quickly becoming the world's most
valuable resource, creating ubiquitous access to this resource in a controlled
manner is critical to prevent undesired behaviour. The Ocean Protocol team
believes in the power of data, and the ability of individuals to decide how it
should be used. Consequently, we are creating a data ecosystem that will
incentivize all actors to participate and benefit from their data use. Ocean
Protocol will unlock data from their silos for the common good.”

**About Ocean Protocol**

Ocean Protocol aims to make data universally available for the benefit of
humankind. The Ocean network is a decentralized data exchange protocol that
enables the sharing of data while guaranteeing control, auditability,
transparency and compliance for all actors. The network empowers developers
and curators to create new and innovative data services, while protecting data
owners.

The Ocean Protocol Foundation is a non-profit entity based in Singapore,
providing governance to build a thriving ecosystem and setting guidance for
technologies that can power a new data economy. <https://oceanprotocol.com>

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

