[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Outlier Ventures and Imperial College Hackathon: Blockchain, Smart Contracts &
Token Economy

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

[mc4wp_form id='4618']

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_catherine-150x150.jpg)

November 2018

Posted by

Catherine Thomas

Business Development Manager

Her core responsibilities are managing investor and partner relations,
supporting our portfolio companies and building the Outlier Ventures
community....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1224)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/blog-
post-9.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/) [Lawrence Lundy
Joins Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/)

April 2016  

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/blog-
post-7.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-vc-to-
hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/) [Outlier
Ventures Becomes First VC To Hire ‘Head of Crypto-Economics’ With Appointment
of Eden Dhaliwal](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-
vc-to-hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/)

August 2017  

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Outlier Ventures and Imperial College Hackathon: Blockchain, Smart Contracts
& Token Economy

Posted by Catherine Thomas - November 2018

[
__](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-and-imperial-college-hackathon-blockchain-smart-contracts-token-
economy) [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-and-imperial-college-hackathon-blockchain-smart-contracts-token-
economy&title=Outlier Ventures and Imperial College Hackathon: Blockchain,
Smart Contracts & Token Economy) [
__](https://twitter.com/share?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-
and-imperial-college-hackathon-blockchain-smart-contracts-token-
economy&text=Outlier Ventures and Imperial College Hackathon: Blockchain,
Smart Contracts & Token Economy) [
__](https://telegram.me/share/url?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-and-imperial-college-hackathon-blockchain-smart-contracts-token-
economy&text=Outlier Ventures and Imperial College Hackathon: Blockchain,
Smart Contracts & Token Economy)

ChainHack24 brought together the 50 brightest minds from Imperial College
Computing, Maths, Biomedical and Chemistry departments, sponsored by Outlier
Ventures and [Blockchain.com](https://www.blockchain.com/explorer). The two
day event focused on building smart contract applications using OrbitDB,
Sovrin, Ocean Protocol and Ethereum. With a prize pool of over £4k in cash and
crypto for the best projects for Identity, Intelligence, Privacy and
Incentives.



Mentors included our OV Labs teach team represented by Theo Turner and Aron
van Ammers, along with senior technology experts Mike Lodder from Sovrin and
Manan Patel from Ocean. As well as the Imperial College London Centre for
Cryptocurrency Research and Engineering (IC3RE), with whom Outlier Ventures
has a three year research partnership.

<https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/ChainHack-timelapse-
web.mp4>

**_ChainHack teams hard at work_**



Aron van Ammers, the Outlier Ventures CTO, worked directly with the teams.
“It’s a great pleasure to see students from around the world and from
different departments at Imperial building a variety of use cases on and
inspired by Outlier portfolio technologies OrbitDB, Sovrin and Ocean. We saw
projects within financial services, universal ID, social networking,
marketplaces and medical data sharing. This is a great demonstration of
Outlier Ventures’ goal to offer world class technology support to our
portfolio teams, from advisory and putting portfolio technology to the test
within OV Labs, to attracting great developers and enterprise partners. We are
thrilled to see what the 8 teams have achieved in such a short period of
time.”



Dominik Harz, research assistant at the Imperial College London Centre for
Cryptocurrency Research and Engineering, said “We’ve been working alongside
Outlier Ventures and the Convergence portfolio for nearly two years, with
Masters and PhD students working on projects from Sovrin, Ocean, OrbitDB and
the wider OV portfolio. It was brilliant to see students from all levels learn
to use DLT frameworks and build in real time. The development of Web3.0 will
need top talent such as our students, and through this event we hope to
connect students to new innovative projects.”

![Outlier Ventures and Imperial College Hackathon: Blockchain, Smart Contracts
& Token Economy Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/11/IMG_0674.jpg)

**_The OV Labs Team, Ocean Protocol and Imperial student from team Slark:_**
** _a marketplace for white hat hackers_**



We’re very proud to present the winning teams and projects below.



**First Prize: OrDex, a decentralised orderbook on OrbitDB**



OrDex created an orderbook built on OrbitDB, also taking home the prize for
the Intelligence challenge; a team of three made up of PhD students and
Masters in Computing Science. Written in Python, JavaScript and Solidity and
using a Qt frontend, OrDex makes use of the Web3 framework to run an order
engine and processor. Order book data is stored in OrbitDB, which can easily
be replicated across nodes for decentralisation. OrDex is largely livenet-
ready for Ethereum and IPFS. The [OrDex code is available on
GitHub](https://github.com/pauljpritz/ordex/).

![Outlier Ventures and Imperial College Hackathon: Blockchain, Smart Contracts
& Token Economy Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/11/IMG_6278.jpg)

**_Team OrDex: Sam Werner, Daniel Perez, Paul Pritz_**



**Second Prize: Block_Scholes, an options contract platform for cryptocurrency
on Ethereum**



Block_Scholes, a PhD and Masters team from a Finance background, developed an
options contract platform for cryptocurrency. Implementing put/call as well as
escrow functions on Ethereum, the project presented one of the most
mathematically sound formulations of the weekend.



**Third Prize: UNID, a unified identity solution using OrbitDB and
decentralised identifiers**



![Outlier Ventures and Imperial College Hackathon: Blockchain, Smart Contracts
& Token Economy Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/11/IMG_9664.jpg)

**_Team UNID: Codin Iosif Pacuraru, Tiberiu-Andrei Georgescu_** ** _,_** **
_Cosmin Baies_**



UNID, a team of First and Second year computing students, also took the prize
for the Identity challenge. They presented the problem of carrying around
multiple student IDs, banks cards, restaurant loyalty cards, and proposed a
one card and one app solution. UNID implemented both an Android and web
interface, with data stored in OrbitDB and identity managed by decentralised
identifiers and secured by biometric identification.



### **Challenges**



![Outlier Ventures and Imperial College Hackathon: Blockchain, Smart Contracts
& Token Economy Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/11/IMG_9749.jpg)

**_Team Betcha: Jung Yoon Kim, Yee Lam Natalie Wong, Hailey, Matthew Cheung,
Noel Lee_**



Out drinking late at the student union and bet your mate won’t make it in for
lectures in the morning? Now there’s a DApp for that: Betcha, a social betting
App built by a team of 3rd years from Computing and Mathematics. The [code is
available on GitHub](https://github.com/Chainhack-Betcha/betcha). We were very
impressed by the end product and usability, as well as the viral nature of the
platform – Betcha took the prize for Incentives. The DApp implements livenet-
ready Solidity contracts with arbitration that can be managed by MetaMask.
Sporting the most impressive front-end, Betcha made use of the React framework
to serve a smooth demo that could grow into a market-ready application.



The Privacy challenge was won by Axolotl, ensuring privacy in a connected
economy. A combined team of students from Mechanical Engineering, PhD level,
and Masters in Computing, Axolotl allowed holders of personal data, such as
the NHS and universities, to share necessary personal information without
revealing anything else. Authorisation of data transfers was handled by
Sovrin’s decentralised identifiers.



![Outlier Ventures and Imperial College Hackathon: Blockchain, Smart Contracts
& Token Economy Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/11/FA55BBC9-50F3-4BF2-9CD6-448E236CEAEA.jpg)

**_Dominik Harz, research assistant at the Imperial College London Centre for
Cryptocurrency Research and Engineering_**



Further projects included CO496 who developed an anonymous auction solution on
Ethereum, and MRDF, ensuring the privacy and security of medical test results
in digital messaging. Another team developed Slark, a marketplace for white
hat hackers, which was especially innovative in its use of escrow to combat
malicious actors.



We congratulate all teams for their amazing work in such a short time, and
welcome students, especially the third years, to take a look at the [OV
recruitment site ](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/)with roles across our
portfolio.

![Outlier Ventures and Imperial College Hackathon: Blockchain, Smart Contracts
& Token Economy Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/11/IMG_1321.jpg)

**_The seven members of the jury getting ready for the presentations_**



### **Let’s Build Web3.0**



At Outlier Ventures and through OV Labs we are dedicated to building Web3.0
through building apps, organising hackathons, dev cons, running network nodes
and applied academic research. An important part of our work is exploring the
synergies between our portfolio, and with the Imperial hackathon we kick off a
series of developer focused events looking at combining these ledgers. Please
join us for the next event [Giving a Voice to the
Blockchain](http://www.bottish.co/), an online conference with Bottish on the
the convergence of AI, DLT, Bots and User Experience with speakers from
[Fetch.AI](https://fetch.ai/), [Ocean,](https://oceanprotocol.com/) and
[SEED](https://www.seedtoken.io/).



If you are interested in organizing a hackathon, or would like to find out how
you can be involved in future events, please send an email our Business
Development team at
[partnerships@outlierventures.io](mailto:partnerships@outlierventures.io).

![Outlier Ventures and Imperial College Hackathon: Blockchain, Smart Contracts
& Token Economy Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/11/5A933BC4-8A91-4696-A1B0-AF18AF442F36.jpg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

