[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Outlier Ventures announces strategic partnership with Enigma Protocol

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Outlier Ventures announces strategic partnership with Enigma Protocol

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_charlotte-150x150.jpg)

August 2019

Posted by

Charlotte Kapoor

Head of Strategic Partnerships

At Outlier Ventures Charlotte is responsible for building the profile of
Outlier Ventures by strengthening the connectedness in their ecosystem, from
founders and investors to academia and media. Charlotte is in the investment
committee at the firm, as well as overseeing communication for both Outlier
and their portfolio. Prior to working at Outlier Ventures Charlotte was a
Business Director at a range of different marketing agencies, helping clients
with product development, branding and growth. ...[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/charlotte-baker/)

# Outlier Ventures Convergence Stack strengthens as Enigma brings the capacity
to secure the decentralised web

Posted by Charlotte Kapoor - August 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_charlotte-150x150.jpg)

August 2019

Posted by

Charlotte Kapoor

Head of Strategic Partnerships

At Outlier Ventures Charlotte is responsible for building the profile of
Outlier Ventures by strengthening the connectedness in their ecosystem, from
founders and investors to academia and media. Charlotte is in the investment
committee at the firm, as well as overseeing communication for both Outlier
and their portfolio. Prior to working at Outlier Ventures Charlotte was a
Business Director at a range of different marketing agencies, helping clients
with product development, branding and growth. ...[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/charlotte-baker/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/asm-and-ov-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-asm/) [Why we
invested in Altered State Machine (ASM)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-
invested-in-asm/)

April 2022  
Jamie Burke

[ ![OutlierVenturesInvestsinLumerin](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/03/why-we-invested-in-lumerin-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-lumerin/) [Why
we invested in Lumerin](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-
lumerin/)

March 2022  
Jamie Burke

Today we can announce we have made a significant investment in, and have
become a strategic advisor to Enigma, a decentralised secure computation
protocol.



Partnering with the Outlier Ventures platform will enable Enigma to scale and
diffuse their network at a new rate. The partnership will enable Enigma to
join a family of world leading internet protocols, developers and computer
scientists in a multi-generational project, all focused on building a new and
more equitable data economy.



To realise the potential of this partnership Enigma and Outlier Ventures will
be working on technology integration, reference implementations of the
network, and creating developer resources. Outlier’s in-house technical teams
will support in the development of tooling and work directly with Enigma’s
code, building bridges and planning key integration points that connect Enigma
to other distributed ledger technology in The Convergence Stack.



At an operational level they will become members of The Convergence Alliance2,
a unique community of open source protocols, enterprise, start-ups, government
bodies and academia chaired by Outlier, leading the next phase of the Web.
With founding members including Deutsche Telekom, Land Rover Jaguar and SAP
the alliance will serve as a gateway for Enigma to connect with Outlier’s
ecosystem of smart cities, corporate partners and developer communities.



Enigma’s core mission is to secure a decentralised web, where secret nodes in
the network perform computations over encrypted data. Their ability to secure
any kind of computation - not just transactions - for thousands of
decentralised apps requiring private computation and secure data will be
hugely powerful for Outlier’s partners. Their cutting-edge cryptographic
methods and secure hardware solutions to turn ordinary smart contracts into
secret contracts will mean users, companies and marketplaces within the stack
can utilise and monetise sensitive data while keeping it private.



CEO Jamie Burke, Outlier Ventures, commented: _“With Enigma, we share the
important mission of reducing the world’s reliance on insecure cloud computing
platforms by offering peer-to-peer, privacy-preserving, decentralized and open
source alternatives. They bring huge and immediate synergies to our growing
stack of investments both at the Compute layer and more widely and we are
looking forward to integrating them into our ecosystem.”_

CEO Guy Zyskind, Enigma commented: _“We are excited to be partnering with
Outlier Ventures towards our shared mission of driving global mass adoption of
decentralized technologies. Outlier’s vision, team, and dedication are
unmatched in our industry. Together we will continue working to create
significant new value for individuals and institutions across the world.”_

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

