[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Outlier Ventures backs Evernym to bring the world true self-sovereign identity

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

[mc4wp_form id='4618']

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/blog-
post-9.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/) [Lawrence Lundy
Joins Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/)

April 2016  

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/blog-
post-7.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-vc-to-
hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/) [Outlier
Ventures Becomes First VC To Hire ‘Head of Crypto-Economics’ With Appointment
of Eden Dhaliwal](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-
vc-to-hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/)

August 2017  

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Outlier Ventures backs Evernym to bring the world true self-sovereign
identity

Posted by Outlier Ventures backs Evernym to bring the world true self-
sovereign identity - October 2017

[
__](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-backs-evernym-to-bring-the-world-true-self-sovereign-identity) [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-backs-evernym-to-bring-the-world-true-self-sovereign-
identity&title=Outlier Ventures backs Evernym to bring the world true self-
sovereign identity) [
__](https://twitter.com/share?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-
backs-evernym-to-bring-the-world-true-self-sovereign-identity&text=Outlier
Ventures backs Evernym to bring the world true self-sovereign identity) [
__](https://telegram.me/share/url?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-backs-evernym-to-bring-the-world-true-self-sovereign-
identity&text=Outlier Ventures backs Evernym to bring the world true self-
sovereign identity)

_Outlier Ventures takes on the role of Evernym’s lead investor and strategic
partner_

London (3 October 2017) -- Leading blockchain and Web 3.0 venture capital firm
Outlier Ventures becomes an investor in, and strategic partner of, Evernym the
foremost developer of self sovereign identity technologies and inventor of
Sovrin, the global public utility for decentralised exchange of verifiable
claims. Sovrin’s utility token distribution event is slated for mid-2018.

Using the unique properties of Sovrin, Evernym builds applications that
finally enable people, businesses and connected devices to securely control
their own identity data, choosing when, with whom and how much they wish to
reveal in any given exchange. This technology forms the basis of applications
Evernym is building for a number of partners including the US Department of
Homeland Security, the UK’s healthcare system and a number of leading global
financial institutions.

“Evernym is an organization unlike any other in the distributed identity
space,” said Outlier Ventures CEO Jamie Burke. “At their stage, to have earned
the cooperation and patronage of such organizations as Hyperledger, the
Illinois Blockchain Initiative and the entire U.S. credit union industry,
speaks directly to the potential Evernym possesses. We just knew we had to be
a part of this story.”

Burke continued, “Self-sovereign identity for people, organizations and
connected devices is the one problem everyone wants to see solved. The deeper
you look at Evernym’s breathtaking technological innovation, it feels the
solution is at hand. Each of our portfolio companies, present and future,
needs this technology, as demonstrated by Evernym’s recent announcement of a
partnership with [IOTA](https://iota.org/). Despite a lot of noise in the
identity space these are the only innovators who have achieved any serious
level of adoption.’’

Evernym offers SaaS services and applications built atop the Sovrin Network,
which is thought to be the world’s only distributed ledger purpose-built for
self sovereign identity and the exchange of verifiable claims. The Sovrin
Foundation is guided by a constitutional “Trust Framework,” conceived with the
Sovrin network’s enduring independence as its primary objective.

“We’ve accomplished a lot in our relatively short existence, but among the
highlights I count our new relationship with a firm as well-regarded as
Outlier Ventures,” said Evernym Co-founder and CEO Timothy Ruff. “Together, we
will break ground destined to prove fundamentally transformative to the
internet in general, and digital trust in particular.”

###

**About Outlier Ventures**

Outlier Ventures was set up in 2013 as Europe’s first blockchain venture
capital firm now with 20 partners, including many senior ex-bankers and
experienced angels, it has go on to lead the industry both in thought and
practice.

They have focused their thesis on the convergence of blockchain and
distributed ledger technology with ‘deep tech’ including AI, IoT, 3D Printing,
VR & AR as well as Autonomous Robotics primarily within Industry 4.0, Smart
Cities and Mobility.

Having already backed IOTA, a top 10 cryptocurrency focused on securing
machine-to-machine payments for Industrial IoT, in early 2017 they plan to
roll out a series of ambitious token sales with their corporate partner
network.

**About Evernym**

Founded in 2013, Evernym develops software solutions that leverage distributed
ledger technology to provide every individual, organization and connected
device with secure and irrevocable identity. Learn more about Evernym and its
self-sovereign identity solutions at evernym.com.

**About the Sovrin Foundation**  
The international, non-profit [Sovrin Foundation](https://www.sovrin.org) is
guided by a constitutional Trust Framework that ensures its independence from
government or industry influence and codifies its dedication to providing
self-sovereign digital identity for all. The Sovrin network is operated by
independent stewards and uses the power of a hybrid distributed ledger as a
fast, private and secure framework for providing every person, organization,
and connected device a permanent identity with which to transact online and
operate securely in everyday life.

Sovrin uses the open source [Hyperledger
Indy](https://www.hyperledger.org/category/hyperledger-indy) codebase
sponsored by the Linux Foundation. This global, interoperable platform lets
individuals and organizations take control over their digital identities and
gives enterprises new solutions to complex challenges like KYC,
authentication, access, privacy and more.

Learn more about the Trust Framework underlying the Sovrin network
[here](http://www.windley.com/archives/2017/07/sovrin_status_provisional_trust_framework.shtml).

**Media contacts:**

Nick Ward on behalf of Outlier Ventures  
[nward@fireoth.com  
](mailto:nward@fireoth.com)+44 (0) 203 865 8135 / +44 (0) 7821 474 272

Judd Bagley, Sr. Director of Communications at Evernym  
[judd.bagley@evernym.com  
](mailto:judd.bagley@evernym.com)+1 385-237-0162

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

