[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Outlier Ventures joins the Wall Street Blockchain Alliance

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

[mc4wp_form id='4618']

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/blog-
post-9.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/) [Lawrence Lundy
Joins Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/)

April 2016  

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/blog-
post-7.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-vc-to-
hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/) [Outlier
Ventures Becomes First VC To Hire ‘Head of Crypto-Economics’ With Appointment
of Eden Dhaliwal](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-
vc-to-hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/)

August 2017  

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Outlier Ventures joins the Wall Street Blockchain Alliance

Posted by Outlier Ventures joins the Wall Street Blockchain Alliance -
December 2017

[
__](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-joins-the-wall-street-blockchain-alliance) [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-joins-the-wall-street-blockchain-alliance&title=Outlier Ventures
joins the Wall Street Blockchain Alliance) [
__](https://twitter.com/share?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-
joins-the-wall-street-blockchain-alliance&text=Outlier Ventures joins the Wall
Street Blockchain Alliance) [
__](https://telegram.me/share/url?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-joins-the-wall-street-blockchain-alliance&text=Outlier Ventures joins
the Wall Street Blockchain Alliance)

****_Firms’ experts will share knowledge and advocate for blockchain adoption
across financial markets_

London (November 28, 2017) -- We are pleased to announce that Outlier
Ventures, the leading blockchain and Web 3.0 venture capital firm, has joined
the non-profit trade association the Wall Street Blockchain Alliance as a
corporate member. Outlier brings a wealth of experience in crypto-economics,
blockchain technology, regulatory issues and funding new innovation in the
industry.

As Ron Quaranta, Chairman of the WSBA notes: “We are very excited to have
Outlier Ventures join the WSBA as one of our corporate members. The team at
Outlier have been involved in the development of blockchain from the early
days and bring a wealth of expertise to WSBA members and the industry.”

Jamie Burke, CEO, Outlier Ventures commented: “The WSBA fulfills an
increasingly important role in working with and educating the Wall Street
community about how blockchain can reinvent and improve decades old financial
services processes. With distributed ledger technology, global financial
markets can be more efficient, more innovative and more transparent. We look
forward to working with the WSBA team and the entire membership to further
build and share blockchain knowledge.”

Greg Murphy, Head of Regulation and Compliance for Outlier Ventures added:
“Blockchain regulation and the development of best practices has come a long
way but there’s still a lot of work to do for the global promise to be
fulfilled. This effort requires high-level cooperation between the blockchain
community, the financial services industry and regulators. The WSBA plays a
leading and critical role in furthering such dialogue. I look forward to
contributing to the discussion on the legal working group and other
initiatives within WSBA in the coming months”  

**About the Wall Street Blockchain Alliance**

The Wall Street Blockchain Alliance (WSBA) is an industry leading non-profit
trade association, with a mission to advocate, guide and promote comprehensive
adoption of blockchain and distributed ledger technology across global
financial markets.

For information about the WSBA, including membership, visit
[www.wsba.co](http://www.wsba.co) or email to
[info@wsba.co](mailto:info@wsba.co).

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

