[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Outlier Ventures Head of Crypto-economics team wins 'The New Frontier in
Enterprise Blockchain Research Award'

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Outlier Ventures Head of Crypto-economics team wins Award

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_charlotte-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Charlotte Kapoor

Head of Strategic Partnerships

At Outlier Ventures Charlotte is responsible for building the profile of
Outlier Ventures by strengthening the connectedness in their ecosystem, from
founders and investors to academia and media. Charlotte is in the investment
committee at the firm, as well as overseeing communication for both Outlier
and their portfolio. Prior to working at Outlier Ventures Charlotte was a
Business Director at a range of different marketing agencies, helping clients
with product development, branding and growth. ...[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/charlotte-baker/)

# Outlier Ventures Head of Crypto-economics Eden Dhaliwal wins The New
Frontier in Enterprise Blockchain Research Award at the Blockchain Revolution
Global Awards Ceremony.

##

Posted by Charlotte Kapoor - June 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_charlotte-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Charlotte Kapoor

Head of Strategic Partnerships

At Outlier Ventures Charlotte is responsible for building the profile of
Outlier Ventures by strengthening the connectedness in their ecosystem, from
founders and investors to academia and media. Charlotte is in the investment
committee at the firm, as well as overseeing communication for both Outlier
and their portfolio. Prior to working at Outlier Ventures Charlotte was a
Business Director at a range of different marketing agencies, helping clients
with product development, branding and growth. ...[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/charlotte-baker/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/asm-and-ov-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-asm/) [Why we
invested in Altered State Machine (ASM)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-
invested-in-asm/)

April 2022  
Jamie Burke

[ ![OutlierVenturesInvestsinLumerin](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/03/why-we-invested-in-lumerin-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-lumerin/) [Why
we invested in Lumerin](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-
lumerin/)

March 2022  
Jamie Burke

## The Enterprise Blockchain Awards (EBA) in April unveiled the winners
including Outlier Ventures Head of Crypt-economics, Eden Dhaliwal, at a gala
ceremony in downtown Toronto.

The Ceremony, which took place on the 24th of April, brought together the
brightest and best of the international community. The gala featured a special
performance by award-winning musician and technologist Imogen Heap and hosted
by comedians Colin Mochrie and Deb McGrath.

The award for New Frontier in Enterprise Blockchain Research, is part of
blockchain Revolution Global and recognises a researcher or academic who
leverages blockchain technology to push the boundaries of new business models.

The team at Outlier Ventures are very proud and excited for the Head of
Crypto-economics Eden Dhaliwel, winner of 2019 Enterprise Blockchain Awards.

![Outlier Ventures Head of Crypto-economics team wins Award Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Outlier.jpeg)Head of Crypto-economics, Eden Dhaliwal,
winner of The New Frontier in Enterprise Blockchain Research

Eden and his team Geoff LeFevre and Anesu Machoko, were nominated alongside
Angelo De Caro, from IBM; Henry Kim and Marek Laskowski, from Blockchain Lab
at the Schulich School of Business and Satoshi Imai, Akira Ito, Takao Ogura &
Takeshi Miyamae, Fujitsu Labs.

![Outlier Ventures Head of Crypto-economics team wins Award Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/0.png)Geoff
LeFevre and Anesu Machoko at the Enterprise Blockchain Awards

Incase you missed out on the awards, click below and watch the live stream of
the 2019 Enterprise Blockchain Awards.

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

