[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Outlier Ventures announce our first dev con Diffusion 2019 alongside 15 of
the world’s most promising tokenised protocols

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Outlier Ventures announce our first dev con Diffusion 2019 alongside 15 of the
world’s most promising tokenised protocols

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_charlotte-150x150.jpg)

July 2019

Posted by

Charlotte Kapoor

Head of Strategic Partnerships

At Outlier Ventures Charlotte is responsible for building the profile of
Outlier Ventures by strengthening the connectedness in their ecosystem, from
founders and investors to academia and media. Charlotte is in the investment
committee at the firm, as well as overseeing communication for both Outlier
and their portfolio. Prior to working at Outlier Ventures Charlotte was a
Business Director at a range of different marketing agencies, helping clients
with product development, branding and growth. ...[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/charlotte-baker/)

# Fetch.AI, Cosmos, IOTA, Chainlink, Enigma, Sovrin, Evernym, Haja Networks,
Agoric Systems, Ocean Protocol, FOAM, Alkemi, RightMesh and SEED come together
for a combined dev con, “Diffusion” in Berlin Fall ‘19, to build an
alternative web

##

Further information about [Diffusion 2019](https://diffusion.events/) is
available at <https://diffusion.events/>

Apply now for one of 350 exclusive free places.

Posted by Charlotte Kapoor - July 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_charlotte-150x150.jpg)

July 2019

Posted by

Charlotte Kapoor

Head of Strategic Partnerships

At Outlier Ventures Charlotte is responsible for building the profile of
Outlier Ventures by strengthening the connectedness in their ecosystem, from
founders and investors to academia and media. Charlotte is in the investment
committee at the firm, as well as overseeing communication for both Outlier
and their portfolio. Prior to working at Outlier Ventures Charlotte was a
Business Director at a range of different marketing agencies, helping clients
with product development, branding and growth. ...[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/charlotte-baker/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/asm-and-ov-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-asm/) [Why we
invested in Altered State Machine (ASM)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-
invested-in-asm/)

April 2022  
Jamie Burke

[ ![OutlierVenturesInvestsinLumerin](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/03/why-we-invested-in-lumerin-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-lumerin/) [Why
we invested in Lumerin](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-
lumerin/)

March 2022  
Jamie Burke

  * ## 350 developers will apply to test their skills to hack using 25m+ lines of open source code over a 2 day period for thousands in prizes

  * ## Hack teams will be drawn from some of the worlds largest corporations, technical universities, leading dev shops and the crypto scenes best indie Github contributors

  * ## The first protocols to be publicly announced include: Fetch.AI, Cosmos, IOTA, Chainlink, Enigma, Sovrin, Evernym, Haja Networks, Agoric Systems, Ocean Protocol, FOAM, Alkemi, RightMesh and SEED with more over the coming months

  * ## Winners will present to leading investors including event hosts and ‘Europas: blockchain hottest investor 2019’, Outlier Ventures and enterprise partners

  * ## The event will take place at The Factory, Berlin over two days on 19-20th October 2019

The crypto scene is often seen as a mass of competing and adversarial tribes.
However 15 protocols have joined forces to collaborate and pool developer
communities to build a literal stack of technologies that collectively enable
a ‘new data economy’, centred around privacy, the decentralisation of insecure
cloud architecture and the deconstruction of platform monopolies, called ‘The
Convergence Stack’.

The Convergence Stack spans IoT hardware through internet networking, storage,
routing, databases, middleware and machine learning leveraging innovations in
distributed ledger technology and crypto assets to coordinate decentralised
networks of stakeholders to enable a more peer to peer and open web.

The two day event will take place in Berlin on the weekend of the 19-20
October 2019 and will be focused on the practical application of distributed
ledger technology, smart contracts and programmable tokens, to create a new
data layer, and enable other deep technologies like AI and IoT to combine and
converge in order to define the next major web cycle.

Leading decentralised projects from across the crypto scene will formally be
present including Fetch.AI, Cosmos, IOTA, Chainlink, Enigma, Sovrin, Evernym,
Haja Networks, Agoric Systems, Ocean Protocol, FOAM, Alkemi, RightMesh and
SEED to celebrate the technical progress and talent across their communities.

It will be a hackathon-style event with teams of developers competing in
challenges including dapps, network improvements, stack integrations, tooling
and documentation to accelerate adoption and network growth. The event will
also feature a series of exclusive product launches, live demos, enterprise
partnership announcements and Q&As from founders and core dev teams from
across The Stack as well as presentations from leading developers, economists
and system engineers.

> Jamie Burke, Founder of Outlier Ventures and pioneer of The Convergence
> Stack comments:
>
> _“This represents a big step for the industry. For the first time, we are
> bringing people to work together to take on the current Web paradigm which
> works for no one other than Facebook, Amazon, Apple and Google’’._
>
> _“We need a wide range of skills from across cryptography, machine learning,
> smart contract dev, IoT, and crypto-economics to make Web 3 a reality. We
> believe this is the first step in a truly collaborative effort reminiscent
> of the early Internet to make p2p mainstream.’’_

### **Further information about[Diffusion 2019](https://diffusion.events/) is
available at <https://diffusion.events/> **

### **Apply now for one of 350 exclusive free places.**

_This article is for information purposes only and does not constitute
investment advice. This article does not amount to an invitation or inducement
to buy or sell an investment nor does it solicit any such offer or invitation
in any jurisdiction._

_In all cases, readers should conduct their own investigation and analysis of
the data in the article. All statements of opinion and/or belief contained in
this article and all views expressed and all projections, forecasts or
statements relating to expectations regarding future events represent Outlier
Ventures Operation Limited own assessment and interpretation of information
available as at the date of this article._

___No responsibility or liability is accepted by Outlier Ventures Operations
Limited or Sapia Partners LLP for reliance on the contents of this article._

_Outlier Ventures is an Appointed Representative of Sapia Partners LLP, a firm
authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)._



Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

