[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Outlier Ventures becomes lead investor in Botanic Technologies and SEED Token

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

[mc4wp_form id='4618']

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/blog-
post-9.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/) [Lawrence Lundy
Joins Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/)

April 2016  

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/blog-
post-7.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-vc-to-
hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/) [Outlier
Ventures Becomes First VC To Hire ‘Head of Crypto-Economics’ With Appointment
of Eden Dhaliwal](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-
vc-to-hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/)

August 2017  

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Outlier Ventures becomes lead investor in Botanic Technologies and SEED
Token

Posted by Outlier Ventures becomes lead investor in Botanic Technologies and
SEED Token - November 2017

[
__](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-becomes-lead-investor-in-botanic-technologies-and-seed-token) [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-becomes-lead-investor-in-botanic-technologies-and-seed-
token&title=Outlier Ventures becomes lead investor in Botanic Technologies and
SEED Token) [
__](https://twitter.com/share?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-
becomes-lead-investor-in-botanic-technologies-and-seed-token&text=Outlier
Ventures becomes lead investor in Botanic Technologies and SEED Token) [
__](https://telegram.me/share/url?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-becomes-lead-investor-in-botanic-technologies-and-seed-
token&text=Outlier Ventures becomes lead investor in Botanic Technologies and
SEED Token)

_Botanic’s patented technology allows SEED Token to underpin open source AI
future_

London ( **6 November 2017** ) -- Leading blockchain and Web 3.0 venture
capital firm Outlier Ventures becomes lead investor in, and strategic partner
of, [Botanic Technologies In](https://botanic.io/)[c](https://botanic.io/)., a
leading multimodal bot development company based in San Francisco, California.
Botanic Technologies is comprised of a team of industry veterans in AI,
Natural Language Processing, avatars, chatbots and building software
companies. It has developed a powerful toolkit and innovative IP for the
creation and deployment of bots (chatbots, assistants and conversational
avatars), the kind it believes will become the new interface for the next
phase of The Web. Botanic will begin to open source its technologies licensed
to a Singapore not for profit company, [Seed Vault
Ltd](https://seedtoken.io/), which will perform an industry-defining token
distribution event in early 2018.

Botanic Technologies has over 6 years of combining advanced Natural Language
Processing with unique design capabilities to build and deploy multimodal bots
capable of interacting across chat, voice, video and virtual reality. Their
technology allows brands in healthcare, finance, education, retail and
technology to guide and enhance the user’s experience through customizable
interfaces and unique relatable personalities, while enabling the highest
levels of privacy and security.

By licensing their technology to Seed Vault, who will open-source and tokenize
their system through the use of blockchain technology, Botanic looks to
decentralise the development of bots and the value creation process. Their
unique crypto economic design, aided by Outlier and their industry partners,
allows for the creators of a bot’s various constituent parts, contributors of
content, and learning to be rewarded by a back-licensing model not possible
prior to the invention of blockchain.

Botanic Technologies will license its world-leading conversational Artificial
Intelligence technology to Seed Vault, a new Singaporean entity, designed to
help deliver an open source future for the development of AI-powered bots,
underpinned by the blockchain and backed by ‘SEED’, its native utility token.
This includes the world’s first ‘voice to blockchain’ patent application, that
enables conversational user interfaces to interoperate with a public
blockchain for all to see. This innovation, among others, is essential to
allow users and developers of AI to account for ownership of data and provide
authentication methods so that bots have ‘license plates’ and can be trusted,
whether in customer service, healthcare, financial, human resources,
education, or any other use case.

“Today’s bots are able to collect a vast array of data points about their
users. Much more than words typed into a webpage” says Mark Stephen Meadows,
CEO of Botanic Technologies “Assistants can now measure our voices, emotions,
and motivations with virtually no privacy safeguards in place. I don’t think
the world has truly grasped the scale and value of the data at stake when it
comes to AI. Botanic’s proven technology has privacy at its core, and will
help Seed Vault create a more equitable model that puts the future of AI in
the hands of the many so that end users’ values are respected.”

“Botanic represents one of the clearest examples of convergence between AI and
blockchain technology. The ability to authenticate bots, their creators and
their interactions using distributed ledgers is essential to building trusted
AI that sees mainstream adoption,” said Outlier Ventures’ CEO Jamie Burke. He
continued, “Botanic works with some amazing corporations and we’re delighted
to be lead investor, and to help them design an equitable and fair bot
economy.”

Nathan Shedroff, Executive Director of Seed Vault commented, “We have licensed
a range of Botanic’s technology, including patents and tools, which form the
basis of our vision to provide a tokenized, open source, approach to bots.’’
He continued, “Today, the big six internet companies dominate AI and we
believe that must change before it’s too late. Seed Vault will give developers
and companies access to a core bot platform to build conversational AI
interfaces. Those developers are rewarded with SEED utility tokens and so too
are bot users that choose to share data via bot interactions. It’s all
underpinned by our own distributed ledger.”

“Outlier Ventures embodies a new generation of venture capital where the
financial investment is only one aspect of how they support innovation,” said
Botanic Technologies’ CEO Mark Stephen Meadows. “What’s equally, if not more
important, is a backer that understands how the Internet is being re-shaped by
the coming together of Web 3.0 technologies and crypto-economics. We have
greatly enjoyed working with Outlier the last few months and are excited about
Seed Vault’s vision for the creation of a tokenized bot economy.”

++++

**About Outlier Ventures**

Outlier Ventures was launched in 2013 as the first European VC focused on
blockchain technologies. Now, with a team of 20, they help pre-seed and seed
stage startups navigate the emerging token space. Their venture platform which
includes academic and corporate partners, offers strategic guidance on token
design, economics, compliance, as well as marketing and technical development.

Their investment philosophy is based on the convergence of decentralised
technologies like blockchains and distributed ledgers with ‘deep tech’ such as
artificial intelligence, robotics, the Internet of Things, and 3D printing
primarily within the Industry 4.0, Smart Cities and Mobility markets.

Having already backed IOTA, a highly-regarded crypto-asset focused on securing
machine-to-machine payments for Industrial IoT, and more recently Evernym and
it’s Sovrin Foundation they plan to roll out a series of ambitious investments
and strategic partnerships with their corporate and academic network.
[https://outlierventures.io/](https://outlierventures.io/)



**About Botanic Technologies**

Botanic Technologies, Inc. provides companies with the tools to deploy
conversational interfaces, enabling personalized relationships that scale.
Botanic’s unique approach puts the ability to create, deploy and maintain
these interfaces directly into the hands of its customers, guided as needed,
and supported by the deep expertise of the Botanic staff. These multi-modal
interfaces can be text (chatbots), voice (virtual assistants), or visual
characters (avatars). In all cases, and by any modality, the personality is
consistent, allowing for high touch personal interactions with low cost.

Botanic Technologies holds nearly a dozen patents and patents-pending,
including a patent on a voice-to-blockchain bridge. Customers include
Fortune-100 corporations, three government bodies, and startups around the
globe. Use cases include conversational interfaces that help women with breast
cancer find financial resources, help children with social anxiety, provide
job interview coaching, help people find jobs, provide wellness counselling,
media interfaces, game characters and others.
[https://botanic.io/](https://botanic.io/)



**About Seed Vault Ltd.**

AI now surrounds us and bots generate more Internet traffic than people. These
conversational user interfaces (CUIs) tell us where to drive, what to do with
our finances and how to manage our health. Like the leap from command-line
interfaces to graphic user interfaces, CUIs are more natural for people to use
and will change all computing systems in every industry, opening-up
opportunities for new services, applications, and users. They also create new
classes of interactions and data (like affect and emotion), requiring greater
trust, openness, and equality.

The SEED token is open-source and uses blockchain so that bot interactions can
be managed, authenticated and remunerated in order to establish an interface
to AI that is a democratic, trusted, and equal value exchange. It is built on
top of [Botanic Technologies'](http://www.botanic.io/) multi-modal Bot
Framework, already in use on Android, iOS, Skype, Signal and other clients.
The SEED network marketplaces create exchanges for independent bot developers
to share, buy, and sell bot components of all types to make bot creation and
management faster, easier, and more profitable. The marketplaces use
blockchain to track uses of bot components for developer compensation.

The SEED token is managed by [Seed Vault Ltd](http://seedtoken.alternative-
spaces.com/seedvault.html)., a not for profit organization based in Singapore.
[http://www.seedtoken.io/](http://www.seedtoken.io/)



**Media contacts:**

Nick Ward

nward@fireoth.com

+44 (0) 203 865 8135 / +44 (0) 7821 474 272

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

