[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Outlier Ventures reveals its top blockchain predictions for 2020

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Outlier Ventures reveals its top blockchain predictions for 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

December 2019

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

  * **Gaming will be the break-out application area**
  * **China goes all in on digital currency, with adoption accelerating at a staggering rateÂ**
  * **Europe steals a march on the US as The Westâs hub for blockchain projects**
  * **The token market will be cleaned up, with valuations based on traction and usageÂ**
  * **Telegram will have the most monthly-active users of any blockchain networkÂ**
  * **Corda will become the market leader in enterprise blockchainÂ**

Posted by Lawrence Lundy - December 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

December 2019

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/asm-and-ov-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-asm/) [Why we
invested in Altered State Machine (ASM)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-
invested-in-asm/)

April 2022  
Jamie Burke

[ ![OutlierVenturesInvestsinLumerin](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/03/why-we-invested-in-lumerin-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-lumerin/) [Why
we invested in Lumerin](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-
lumerin/)

March 2022  
Jamie Burke

Over 11 years since the creation of Bitcoin, 2020 will be the year we follow
the **S-Curve** of technology diffusion out of the period of **Installation**
and into **Deployment,** where we see âsynergyâ and âconsolidationâ of
the technology begin to take effect. Blockchain will finally grow up, with
institutional money trickling into the market based on fundamentals - real
traction and usage.

2020 also marks the start of more mature and usable networks creating
decentralised applications, building an increasingly competitive landscape for
projects to battle it out in order to become mainstream.Â **This is the
beginning of the cycle, where tomorrowâs next internet unicorns are born,
built on demand and mass usage.** For mass adoption to happen, distribution
over any necessarily fundamental innovation will become key, and can only be
built, bought or borrowed using an open stack of collaborative technologies.Â
Â

##

## **What can we expect in 2020 …**

##

## **1\. Games, games, games** ****

********Gaming will be the break-out application area in 2020.

By the end of 2020 many of the pieces needed for a break-out mainstream game
will be there: high-performance platforms; easier to use on and off-ramps for
digital assets; and better digital asset storage and distribution tools for
gamers. So, all that is left is the distribution and reaching gamers. This
will be accelerated by the ability for gamers to earn credits that can be used
in and possibly across games by renting out their GPU and CPU hardware to run
computational and rendering tasks.Â

### Measure: Valve and/or Epic will launch a blockchain-based gaming service



## **2\. At home, you will be using Telegram**



Telegram reaches about 200 million users a month all of whom have opted into a
messenger specifically differentiated on privacy and security, and many whom
have been early adopters of crypto projects.

With Klatyn (KakaoTalk) and Link Network (LINE) live, TON (Telegram),
Mobilecoin (Signal) and Libra sans stablecoin (Facebook) expected, 2020 should
begin to see real usage of blockchain-based platforms. Even if TON has to
return funds to US investors as part of a settlement with the SEC, TON and the
apps that run on top of the network will find a ready-made audience in a way
that Klatyn, LINE and Facebook wonât.Â

### Measure: By the end of 2020, Telegram will have the most monthly-active
users of any blockchain network.Â



## **3\. At work, you will be using Corda**



Corda will emerge as the market leader in the enterprise blockchain market.Â

While consolidating the lead in the financial services market, R3 will
continue making inroads into other verticals like energy and
telecommunications. Enterprise-friendly services such as training, customer
services, and certification programmes will differentiate the platform driving
more usage which in turn will drive developers to build for the platform. In
2020, it may not be as sexy as building DeFi apps on Ethereum, but real
customers and real money will be made with Corda apps.Â

### Measure: Corda will overtake Hyperledger, Ethereum, and Quorum by market
share and become the market leader in enterprise blockchain.Â



## **4\. China goes all in on digital currencyÂ**



The Bank of International Settlements (BIS) survey of 63 central banks in 2018
shows the majority were researching or starting proof-of-concept work on
digital currencies, although most of them were not ready yet to actually
launch.Â

Christine Lagarde, the European Central Bank President, said a Central Bank
Digital Currency _âcould satisfy public policy goals, such as financial
inclusion, and security and consumer protection; and to provide what the
private sector cannot: privacy in paymentsâ_. These CBDCs will be wholesale
CBDCs rather than retail. Itâs likely central banks will focus on the
wholesale market leaving the retail market for regulated institutions. In
2020, we expect this to be how the Chinese Digital Currency Electronic Payment
(DCEP) launches with licenses given to select exchanges and dominant platforms
as distribution platforms to hundreds of millions of users like Alibaba, Baidu
and Tencent.Â

### Measure: More than 500 million Chinese citizens to be using a service
connected to the DCEP network by the end of 2020.Â Â Â



## **5\. European scene booms**



2020 will see Europe begin to steal a march on the US as The Westâs hub for
blockchain projects, in particular tokenised networks, to both finance and
base themselves.Â

However, it is to be seen to what extent with Brexit, London continues to be
part of that narrative, it was previously the second most popular city
globally for early-stage blockchain financing. This is all largely driven by
the EUs determination to break away from the last few decades of US dominanceÂ
over the internet - what it sees as Silicon Valleyâs anti-social and
extractive web monopolies, initially based on concerns around data but now
with Libra the very stability of its financial system.Â Â Â

### Measure: European venture capital in blockchain companies was $700 million
in 2019 and will surpass the all time high of $850 million of 2018 to reach
$900 million in 2020



## **6\. The Great East/West divergence plays out in blockchains**



The more time we at Outlier Ventures have spent in Asia this year, in
particular China, the more we have come to believe there will be a divergence
between the East and West in blockchain, and more specifically digital assets.
Of course, this is nothing new; there have always been in effect two versions
of The Web but the acceleration of adoption driven by the Chinese central and
provincial governments is staggering.Â

  * Whilst China formally pursues a path of permissioned and untokenised blockchain, Bitcoin mining and several POS networks like EOS are already dominated, and some argue controlled by Chinese companies.Â 
  * The majority of exchanges and trading volume is still Chinese originated and it is understood by Q2 of 2020 there will be a few national champions formally given licenses, likely to operate initially in fairly restricted ways, possibly out of free trading zones.
  * Â We can expect various provinces and SOEs (State Owned Enterprises) to begin to champion their own regionally based tokenised networks within central guidelines.Â 
  * The Chinese Digital Currency Electronic Payment (DCEP) will reach hundreds of millions of consumers overnight by forcing adoption by dominant platforms, but this also further entrenches their business models where in the West we like many believe Web 2.0 platforms will be unbundled.

Perhaps we will see a longer period of Web 2.5 in Asia or an entirely
different form of Web 3.0, but the outcome will lead to a battle for not just
technological, but potential financial dominance.

### Measure: 3 Chinese exchanges are given official permission under license
to operate domestically under restrictionsÂ Â Â



## **7\. The token market will be cleaned up**



The big story throughout 2020 will be âThe Reckoningâ. Despite the longish
bear market, aggregate total market capitalisation of all cryptoassets being
down 88% from an all time high in January 2018 for the vast majority of
projects, are still not reflective of network activity or development
progress.Â

As exchanges are forced to increasingly professionalise, âzombie tokensâ
will be more aggressively delisted and investors will gradually flock to
quality. The idea of projects worth $100 million without product-market fit
will go away. Valuations can no longer be sustained by just a vision and an
idea. 2020 will all be about traction and usage. And not just press release
partnerships, beta releases, and funding rounds. We are talking about Brave
Browser level 10 million monthly active users traction, something we are a
proud early investor in.Â

### Measure: More than 5 new indices will launch in 2020 onboarding >$5
billionÂ



## **8\. Bitcoin will get applications**



We think in 2020 the narrative around Bitcoin will move away from simply
âstore-of-valueâ to an open financial âplatformâ, with the most secure
and trusted settlement layer in the market.

The halvening will capture much of the attention of the industry and media,
and price action will dominate mind share. But the growth of LApps (Lightning
Apps) and more broadly data anchoring will be a stronger fundamental signal of
the development of a fee market and the long-term viability of Bitcoin.Â

### Measure: Bitcoin will increase market dominance from 66% to at least 75%
by the end of 2020. Â Â Â Â Â



## **9\. Ethereum wonât get more apps, but decentralized finance will
continue to be hot**



We expect layer 2 adoption opening up use cases beyond crowdfunding and DeFi.
Expect to see games currently using EOS and Tron to migrate over to Ethereum
to take advantage of the DeFi lego available. With the development of
MAST/Taproot on the Bitcoin network as well as the influx of new smart
contracting platforms reaching mainnet in 2020, we are likely to continue to
see a stable pool of developers spread over ever more platforms. Leading to
fewer new dapps being built on Ethereum, but with a select few DeFi apps like
Maker and Compound driving an increase in monthly active users and value
locked up in contracts. The prediction that is hard to make is whether a
break-out application using DeFi lego building blocks entrenches Ethereum as
the base layer or if interoperability projects like GEO Protocol and others
reduce the importance and value of the base layer over time.

### Measure: Total value locked up in Ethereum DeFi will surpass 1 billion
dollars in 2020



## **10\. You come at the King, and new blockchains will miss**



The glut of new smart contracting platforms will come to market in 2020 and
begin heavily focusing on developer and customer acquisition. In time, general
developers will become more familiar with blockchain-based platforms,
currently estimated to be less than just 1% of the global developer
population, but in 2020, we will still see more supply than demand.Â

In the context of prediction 1.0, when crypto assets are largely thought of as
digital commodities, this glaring disparity will impact price. From a problem-
to-be-solved lens, the vast majority of developers want to be able to use
stable, secure, fast, and easy-to-use software. Polkadot, Fetch.ai, Dfinity,
Hashgraph, Near Protocol, Spacemesh, Solana, Telegram Open Network, Thunder
Token, nCent, and all the platforms already now in the market like Cardano,
Tezos, Holochain, Algorand, Blockstack, et al, are all differentiated in some
way, but the biggest question is: how do they cut through with developers who
will need to build âkillerâ apps and attract consumers?Â

Different developer acquisition strategies will be deployed: protocol
accelerators, ecosystem funds and Devcons, and whilst some will grow the total
number of developers and their share of the market, most will struggle for
critical mass head to head against Ethereum and Bitcoin in 2020.Â Â

### Measure: No new smart contract platform has more than 400 total
applications by EOYÂ



## **11\. Itâs a washoutâ¦**



Between 50% and 75% of publicly listed tokens will be delisted and/or cease
trading.Â

So from 2345 tokens actively traded today to >1000 tokens by the end of 2020.
This could move closer to <500 if Binance decides to go on a delisting
exercise to protect users and get ready for regulation and staking ends up in
a race to the bottom.Â

New tokens coming to market will be few and far between and will all be more
mature. By the end of 2020, public offerings and listings will no longer be
for seed businesses, they will be not quite as advanced as a traditional IPO,
but will at least have a product in the market with product-market fit. Token
distribution events will be used, as originally intended prior to ERC20, to
incentivise the usage of a live network, but for the development of the
network.Â Â

### Measure: More than 50% of todayâs publicly listed tokens will be
delisted.Â



## **12\. Investors donât want to be customers, they want returns …**



Since the collapse of the ICO market and the lacklustre returns from IEOs,
projects have been exploring alternative token distribution strategies that
seek to raise capital and align the interests of network participants.Â

Ideal distribution method would solve for speculative intent, regulatory
implications, network deanonymization, market irrationality, and stakeholder
alignment. All sorts of exotic strategies have been proposed or tested like
the lock-drop, warlock, liquid airdrops and others. In 2020, it will become
clear the market of investors who can also become active network participants
is too small to raise enough capital to build a global network. We will move
back to startups selling equity to investors to raise money and using tokens
as a reward for users.Â

### Measure: Equity in The West becomes the dominant fundraising instrument
before network launch at 90% of money raised.Â

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

