[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Outlier Ventures Lab

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Outlier Ventures Labs

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/ov_aron-150x150.jpg)

May 2019

Posted by

Aron van Ammers

CTO and Founding Partner

Before Outlier Ventures, Aron completed an MSc in Business Information
Technology and has over 15 years of experience in software development in the
roles of CTO, architect, designer, consultant, developer and systems engineer
in both start-up and enterprise environments. He has extensive knowledge and
hands-on experience with full stack software development, decentralised
systems and smart contracts....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/aron-van-ammers/)

# Summary of OV labs projects and ecosystem

## The technical complexity of keeping pace with multiple deep technologies
and their interactions in the [Convergence
Stack](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-convergence-stack/) is hugely
demanding and requires a dedicated team of technical analysts who can only
really learn by doing.

## By Aron van Ammers

Posted by Aron van Ammers - May 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/ov_aron-150x150.jpg)

May 2019

Posted by

Aron van Ammers

CTO and Founding Partner

Before Outlier Ventures, Aron completed an MSc in Business Information
Technology and has over 15 years of experience in software development in the
roles of CTO, architect, designer, consultant, developer and systems engineer
in both start-up and enterprise environments. He has extensive knowledge and
hands-on experience with full stack software development, decentralised
systems and smart contracts....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/aron-van-ammers/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

## This means they must be active developers, administrators and participants
of networks. We call this Outlier Labs, and it has been our commitment to the
space since 2014 and includes a multitude of activities such as: building
apps, hackathons, dev cons, running network nodes and applied academic
research.

### Recent work:

### Decentralised data to decentralised data markets – H2O

![Outlier Ventures Labs Outlier Ventures](http://outlierventures-
ovio-2019.pskdev.com/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/Screenshot-2019-05-20-at-13.17.09.png)App website:
[https://h2o.outlierventures.io](https://h2o.outlierventures.io)

Code:
[https://github.com/OutlierVentures/H2O](https://github.com/OutlierVentures/H2O)

At the end of 2018 Outlier Ventures Labs released H2O, or Haja to Ocean. Ocean
Protocol enables the creation of a decentralised data economy. It is agnostic
to where the actual data is stored. OrbitDB is a decentralised database
spearheaded by Haja Networks. With H2O, we demonstrated how data in a
decentralised database can be enriched using machine learning algorithms and
traded on an Ocean Protocol marketplace.

![Outlier Ventures Labs Outlier Ventures](http://outlierventures-
ovio-2019.pskdev.com/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/Screenshot-2019-05-17-at-08.19.26.png)

### Autonomous Economic Agents with verifiable credentials – ANVIL

App website:
[https://anvil.outlierventures.io](https://anvil.outlierventures.io)

Code:
[https://github.com/OutlierVentures/ANVIL](https://github.com/OutlierVentures/ANVIL)

Next in line of Outlier Ventures Labs’ integration projects is the Agent
Negotiation Verification Interaction Layer, or ANVIL. Fetch.AI is a
decentralised world where agents perform useful economic work. Sovrin is an
open ledger, technology stack and governance framework for verifiable claims
exchange, enabling self sovereign identity and cross-silo authentication.
ANVIL enables the real-world verifiable claims of Sovrin to be used by
autonomous economic agents on Fetch to bootstrap trust in negotiations.
Imagine an electric car negotiating with a charging pole, receiving a zero-
knowledge proof that the pole has been produced by a manufacturer that the car
trusts and has recently been inspected by an organisation that the car trusts,
all in a fully automated, privacy-preserving manner.

![Outlier Ventures Labs Outlier Ventures](http://outlierventures-
ovio-2019.pskdev.com/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/Screenshot-2019-05-20-at-13.21.58.png)

### What we do

### 1\. Applied learning

  * All our technical analysts are coders and practitioners. In short, they are doers vs thinkers.
  * We’ve done this on many levels from simply auditing and running code all the way to building actual DApps on top, sometimes even to MVP level and beyond. 

### 2\. Running & building code

  * A lot of the teams we work with are very early stage, typically pre-token, and sometimes before there is much code at all. We are often actively involved in running early code, testing and evaluating it. 
  * Our engineering team [submits](https://github.com/iotaledger/wallet/commit/59c3e066dc66fd5cd116efa7158f03953d4d4ece#r25179874) [issues](https://github.com/orbitdb/orbit-db/issues/475) as we encounter them, play with APIs and inform the developer documentation required to scale community. Increasingly we build apps ourselves to evaluate and demonstrate the potential of our portfolio’s tech. To begin here’s [our GitHub](https://github.com/OutlierVentures) – we always welcome pull requests.

### 3\. Operating nodes

  * Running nodes for all our portfolio networks is one of the first steps we take at Labs as they reach testnet and mainnet stage.
  * We also help out by [making onboarding new nodes easier](https://github.com/OutlierVentures/Ocean-Node) for others (including the legal considerations), as we do it ourselves and iron out issues that come with any nascent piece of software and document the process.

### 4\. Staking, baking & keeping: active network participation

  * We work with each of our portfolio teams to support their networks and be an active participant beyond just capital - we go beyond simply holding tokens and waiting for the reward.
  * We are on the verge of a number of large proof-of-stake networks going live in the crypto space, or migrating to it. Network participants who stake their tokens get rewarded. Doing that securely and with high availability isn’t easy. It requires intimate technical knowledge of the protocol, and great system engineering, which is why we’re seeing a rapid growth in the amount of staking-as-a-service businesses as well as custody providers starting to offer network participation services. For crypto VCs, it can often make sense to take this capacity partially or wholly in-house, considering their holdings. At Labs we work internally and cooperate with excellent teams to manifest secure network participation tools for all of networks in the Convergence Stack.

### 5\. Collaborating with world leading technical academia

  * We [started a 3 year research programme with Imperial College London](http://www.imperial.ac.uk/news/178860/ic3re-announces-partnership-explore-convergence-blockchain/) at the beginning of 2017 which has been yielding great results for us and our portfolio from IOTA to Ocean Protocol.
  * We have a full-time PhD student named Dominik Harz permanently sat at South Kensington Campus to enable us to effectively interface with professors, post and undergraduate students within their Computer Science Faculty, who you can follow on Twitter on [@nud3l_](https://twitter.com/nud3l_).

### 6\. Realising Portfolio Synergies

  * We try to both educate and promote the benefits of each technology across the portfolio and also help them collaborate in a structured way - it’s a benefit of having a well defined technical thesis on Web 3 very deliberately, they have natural synergies with one another. 
  * They will often organically collaborate with one another without our direct involvement, as was seen with [IOTA and Sovrin](https://globenewswire.com/news-release/2017/08/31/1106292/0/en/IOTA-and-Evernym-Launch-Collaboration-Aimed-at-Making-the-Internet-of-Things-More-Secure.html), but we also try to both educate and promote the benefits of each technology across the portfolio and also help them collaborate in a structured way through the [Convergence Stack](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-convergence-stack/). 
  * This is best done through finding tangible use-cases with enterprise partners from our network. It is no surprise therefore that enterprises from Bosch to T-Systems are often working with several combinations of our portfolio at any one time.

### 7\. Combined Hackathons & Dev Cons

  * Many of the projects we have been working with for anything from 1 to 2 years are opening up testnets and code before their network launch in 2019. We are organising a series of highly technical events that bring them together to explore synergies in interesting ways.
  * This includes [chainhack::24](http://chainhack24.org/) in London, hosted by Imperial College which showcased Fetch.AI, Sovrin, Ocean Protocol and Haja Networks. 

### 8\. Sourcing Talent & Ecosystem Funds

  * We hope the hackathons, developer conference and relationships with places like Imperial College act as a recruitment pool for technical talent for our portfolio. But we have gone one step further and creating a job opening aggregator from across our portfolio on [https://jobs.outlierventures.io](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/). 





Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

