[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Outlier Ventures and list of global investors back $4 Million Raise for
Agoric to enable secure JavaScript for blockchain-based smart contracts

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Outlier Ventures and list of global investors back $4 Million Raise for Agoric
to enable secure JavaScript for blockchain-based smart contracts

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_charlotte-150x150.jpg)

May 2019

Posted by

Charlotte Kapoor

Head of Strategic Partnerships

At Outlier Ventures Charlotte is responsible for building the profile of
Outlier Ventures by strengthening the connectedness in their ecosystem, from
founders and investors to academia and media. Charlotte is in the investment
committee at the firm, as well as overseeing communication for both Outlier
and their portfolio. Prior to working at Outlier Ventures Charlotte was a
Business Director at a range of different marketing agencies, helping clients
with product development, branding and growth. ...[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/charlotte-baker/)

# Outlier Ventures and list of global investors back $4 Million Raise for
Agoric to enable secure JavaScript for blockchain-based smart contracts

## _Foundational distributed electronic markets development team close round
to scale the team and build commercial solutions_

##

## New York, NY ( **May 13, 2019** ) -- Agoric today announced the successful
completion of their latest investment round with an impressive array of global
investors including gumi Cryptos Capital, Interchain Foundation (Cosmos),
Kilowatt Capital, Lemniscap, MetaStable Capital, Outlier Ventures, Rockaway
Blockchain, Xpring (Ripple), and others, joining initial seed investors
Electric Coin Company, Naval Ravikant, and Polychain.

Posted by Charlotte Kapoor - May 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_charlotte-150x150.jpg)

May 2019

Posted by

Charlotte Kapoor

Head of Strategic Partnerships

At Outlier Ventures Charlotte is responsible for building the profile of
Outlier Ventures by strengthening the connectedness in their ecosystem, from
founders and investors to academia and media. Charlotte is in the investment
committee at the firm, as well as overseeing communication for both Outlier
and their portfolio. Prior to working at Outlier Ventures Charlotte was a
Business Director at a range of different marketing agencies, helping clients
with product development, branding and growth. ...[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/charlotte-baker/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/asm-and-ov-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-asm/) [Why we
invested in Altered State Machine (ASM)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-
invested-in-asm/)

April 2022  
Jamie Burke

[ ![OutlierVenturesInvestsinLumerin](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/03/why-we-invested-in-lumerin-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-lumerin/) [Why
we invested in Lumerin](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-
lumerin/)

March 2022  
Jamie Burke

_Foundational distributed electronic markets development team close round to
scale the team and build commercial solutions_

New York, NY ( **May 13, 2019** ) -- Agoric today announced the successful
completion of their latest investment round with an impressive array of global
investors including gumi Cryptos Capital, Interchain Foundation (Cosmos),
Kilowatt Capital, Lemniscap, MetaStable Capital, Outlier Ventures, Rockaway
Blockchain, Xpring (Ripple), and others, joining initial seed investors
Electric Coin Company, Naval Ravikant, and Polychain.

Agoric will bring the millions of programmers worldwide the ability to safely
build smart contracts and new digital assets using a secure subset of
JavaScript, the world’s most popular programming language. This will enable
new forms of global economic activity and cooperation that have previously
been impossible or infeasible.

The investment follows the 2018 technology validation, and fundamental
development on cross-chain interoperability and integrations, moving the
technology rapidly toward commercialization. With this new backing, Agoric
will double in size, to scale the engineering function and grow the business
development team to prepare for go-to-market activities. The initial priority
is to deliver the test net and build out interoperability with top-tier next-
generation decentralized projects. The team is also actively recruiting
reference implementation partners from key verticals, including financial
services organizations.

Mark Miller, Chief Scientist, states: “In recent years, smart contracts have
been prone to a number of extremely expensive errors that have been made even
by real experts working incredibly hard to do it right. Programming smart
contracts in the way the industry does it now is just too hard and too hazard-
prone, and the losses are too great. This is a huge problem and one that needs
to be fixed”.

Agoric builds on the seminal Agoric Open Systems work for market-based,
distributed computation, written by Chief Scientist Dr. Mark Miller and Dr. K.
Eric Drexler in 1988. Miller is a former Google research scientist and sits on
the global JavaScript “TC39” technical standards committee. Chief Executive,
E. Dean Tribble is a former Principal Architect at Microsoft and is an
entrepreneur with multiple successful projects including VerifyValid (acquired
by Deluxe Corporation) and Agorics (acquired by Microsoft). The team includes
institutional economists as well as leaders and executives with experience
earned at companies including Mozilla, AMiX, IBM, and Time Warner Cable
(acquired by Charter Communications).

Chief Executive, E. Dean Tribble added: “Creating secure smart contracts using
today’s technology is inherently difficult. Agoric includes robust security
properties beyond anything available today, and it will provide that security
across substrates, from local machines to global blockchains. The implications
for secure development of blockchains, cross-chain compatibility, and the
future economic opportunities that this will unlock means this is a vitally
important development in contract technology”.

“The Agoric vision is to unlock the potential of smart contracts, not only for
bleeding-edge experts but also for millions of mainstream programmers. The
Agoric team is uniquely right for this great task, and I'm proud to support
them.” Zooko Wilcox, CEO of the Electric Coin Company (makers of Zcash)

Zaki Manian, Director of Research at All In Bits (Cosmos) stated: “The prior
work of the Agoric founders was one of the key inspirations for the
architecture of the Cosmos Network. As we work on releasing the first version
of inter-blockchain communication protocol, we expect that Agoric's smart
contract and digital asset architecture will enable trillions of dollars in
assets to be managed by networks of blockchains.”

Ethan Beard, SVP of Xpring (Ripple) said: "Agoric is an incredible team
delivering secure smart contracts that work across multiple blockchains. At
Xpring, we believe in interoperability at the infrastructure level and are
excited to support Agoric on their launch."

Chief Executive Tribble concluded: “We thank our supporters and investors for
their belief in the project, and we are now looking forward to rolling this
technology out in the coming months, with our new and existing partners”.

![Outlier Ventures and list of global investors back $4 Million Raise for
Agoric to enable secure JavaScript for  blockchain-based smart contracts
Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/IMG_20190511_185437-1-1024x768.jpg)

**Additional commentary**

Lawrence Lundy-Bryan, Head of Research at Outlier Ventures commented: “The
opportunity for smart contracts to be delivered in Javascript, the world’s
most popular programming language with millions and millions of developers,
and used by every major corporation globally will open a whole new set of
business and financial transaction capabilities to enable new models of
economic activity to emerge“.

Miko Matsumura, General Partner at gumi Cryptos said: “Smart contracts
automate Enterprise transaction systems and extend the API economy. Agoric
providing secure JavaScript will accelerate Enterprise adoption of smart
contracts by a thousand-fold.

Dusan Kovacic, Chief Investment Officer at Rockaway Blockchain added: “We can
see a lot of teams building new smart contract platforms with only marginal
incremental improvements to the existing ecosystem. This, however, is not
Agoric's case. Dean and his team are striving to improve the space by one full
generation. Agoric brings capabilities of object-oriented design into the
smart contract world not available today. Traditional developers will be able
to include smart contract features into their products without the need for
extensive learning and coding paradigm shifts.”

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

