[Konrad S. Graf](/)

  * [About](/)
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)
  * Evolutionary Health [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health) [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)
  * [Translation](/translation)
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)
  * [Blog](/blog1)
  * [Contact](/contact)

# [Konrad S. Graf](/)

  * [About](/)/
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)/
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)/
  * Evolutionary Health/

    * [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health)
    * [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)

  * [Translation](/translation)/
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)/
  * [Blog](/blog1)/
  * [Contact](/contact)/

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf) [
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A) [
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

# [Konrad S. Graf](/)

# Blog

# [Konrad S. Graf](/)

  * [About](/)/
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)/
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)/
  * Evolutionary Health/

    * [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health)
    * [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)

  * [Translation](/translation)/
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)/
  * [Blog](/blog1)/
  * [Contact](/contact)/

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf) [
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A) [
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

[July 09, 2017](/blog1/2017/7/9/a-unified-evolutionary-theory-of-human-and-
environmental-health)

# [Outlines of a Unified Evolutionary Theory of Human and Environmental
Health](/blog1/2017/7/9/a-unified-evolutionary-theory-of-human-and-
environmental-health)

[July 09, 2017](/blog1/2017/7/9/a-unified-evolutionary-theory-of-human-and-
environmental-health)/ [Konrad Graf](/blog1?author=5720adbcb6aa6055fa279727)

# Introduction

Healthy food and its production should be possible and mutually compatible.
The components of what follows have been developing in the world for a long
time, but in obscure corners. Now, aided by the incomparable power of the
internet to spread heretical information, these insights are spreading.
Evidence is being collected and disseminated in unprecedented ways. Here, they
will be presented as parts of a synthesis, in which each part reinforces the
others. A page of recommended resources to follow up on each topic is linked
at the end.

# 1\. Evolutionary health perspectives

Technological progress has many benefits. Yet some aspects of older styles of
life, including patterns of sleeping, eating, and moving, and also aspects of
food production, may have been healthier for people and environment alike than
typical modern versions. Rediscovering and re-engaging some of these could
raise health and well-being today.

The principle of evolution by natural selection revolutionized biology.
Evolutionary theory can also help sort out the deeply confused and corrupted
modern field of nutrition, though not on its own. There are several lines of
evidence to go with it: biochemical pathways and interactions, controlled
nutrition experiments (not epidemiological studies, which are both commonly
performed and mostly useless), and archaeological and anthropological
investigations of hunter-gatherer groups.

### The illusion in hunter/gatherer mortality statistics

![Inupiat Family from Noatak, Alaska, 1929, by Edward S.
Curtis.](https://images.squarespace-
cdn.com/content/v1/5720adbdc6fc0891cbcce17c/1499630785679-YM64CL0YTCFI08FZWUGJ/1920px-
Inupiat_Family_from_Noatak%2C_Alaska%2C_1929%2C_Edward_S._Curtis_%28restored%29.jpg)

Inupiat Family from Noatak, Alaska, 1929, by Edward S. Curtis.

One line of evidence is research on hunter/gatherer populations conducted
prior to their taking up modern practices such as eating sugar and grain and
sitting around a lot and snacking. Some of this research was conducted by
[Weston Price](http://www.westonaprice.org/). These groups were found to be
either free of or far less subject to the “diseases of civilization,”
including cancer, diabetes, heart disease, strokes, cognitive degeneration,
and chronic joint and tooth decay.

A popular image of hunter/gatherer groups is that their lives were "nasty,
brutish, and short." Quoting statistics on low average life expectancy among
such groups is a favorite maneuver of casual critics. But such numbers conceal
more than they reveal. Non-dietary factors in pre-modern life collapse the
averages. These other factors include rampant infant and childhood mortality,
death of mothers in childbirth, predators, prey fighting back, fights and
battles among rivals, accidents and resulting infections, and infectious
diseases. The overwhelming factor behind improved average life expectancy in
modern times is the alleviation of such tragedies as these, above all, large
numbers of babies dying before age one. Changes in such data tell us of the
effects of modern hygiene and medicine. However, they tell us nothing about
what we are investigating: What are the effects _of nutrition_ _and lifestyle_
on health and long-term degenerative conditions?

Evidence suggests rather that hunter-gatherers who survived the diseases and
battles of youth tended to live long, with high awareness, robustness, and
capability and little to no sign of the many and varied degenerative diseases
afflicting moderns. The simplistic idea that they did not develop these
diseases only because they died too young to suffer from them does not
hold—the ones who lived long did not develop them either!

### To _The Primal Blueprint_ and beyond

Although I had been interested in healthy eating since my teen years, and
spent a number of years as a vegetarian, the book that marked a sharp shift on
my path of research and personal experimentation was _The Primal Blueprint_ by
Mark Sisson, which I read in October 2010. This book presents a blend of open
attitude, systematic information, and a balanced, principled approach that
goes beyond nutrition to exercise and other lifestyle habits viewed with an
evolutionary lens.

Other works soon informed my perspectives through phases. I transformed my
approach to nutrition and exercise step by step based on new information and
experiences. I, like quite a few others, have passed through trying primal and
paleo approaches, LCHF, and fasting. I have now moved on to a largely
[zerocarb](/homo-carnivorus) approach.

Beyond these many food and training changes over the years, I also took steps
such as using software to alter computer and phone screen color temperature
according to the time of day, switching to a standing desk for some types of
work, using a sunrise-simulation alarm clock, and limiting smartphone reading
in the sleeping area (audiobooks allowed). I think such measures helped
improve sleep quality and reduce eye strain. Finally, I have discovered
important insights into agriculture and environmental issues that connect
these personal themes to larger-scale issues.

# 2\. The Metabolic Power of Not Eating

Some key insights about nutrition come from surprising source: the practice of
_not eating_ sometimes, or fasting. A recent puzzle piece fit for me and many
others has been to reduce “eating windows” and more consistently practice
intermittent fasting (IF). It turns out that a positive health-promoting
intervention is to just not eat for various periods, for example, 16 hours, 23
hours, or 35 hours, with occasional longer stretches (each person should
consult with professionals before doing this, especially if already on a
medication that might have to be adjusted).

IF can be done intentionally. However, many practitioners of very low carb and
zerocarb diets report spontaneously not being hungry for long periods. In this
case, IF becomes partly an _outcome_ of the eating strategy, not just an
intentional practice. That said, being consciously open to IF allows one to
more easily capture natural fasting opportunities that arise when hunger is
absent.

Fasting traditions have been around and recognized as health promoting for at
least thousands of years worldwide. However, a contemporary challenge for the
practice is that no one is positioned to profit from promoting and supporting
it—except the person doing it. There is no special food to order and no
special drug to consume. There is no product to be hyped and promoted as the
wonder cure. The cure is what is _not_ consumed. Via negativa.

Already being fat-adapted and in ketosis makes fasting easier. There is a
certain freedom from always being locked into _having_ to have that next meal
or snack. While adaptation is required—anywhere from days to weeks and
beyond—once adapted, myself and many others have reported consistent benefits
from nutritional ketosis, fasting ketosis, and their interplay.

Fasting may be viewed as a way to intentionally replicate a "bad-hunting day"
from the paleolithic past. Of course, no self-respecting paleo hunting group
would have _decided_ to have a bad-hunting day, but they would have had some
anyway. Our metabolic systems would have adapted to these periodic fasts,
would have come expect them. Yet today such pauses are largely missing.
Moderns in search of optimal health may have to take steps to reintroduce
them, this time on purpose.

When a bad-hunting phase lead to hunger, one should expect our bodies to send
the following message: get out there and hunt, and hunt _more effectively_
than lately. That means: more energy and enhanced concentration and attention.
It does not mean getting cold and depressed in the cave, a path to non-
survival.

The modern approach to dieting—reducing calories while still eating the same
regular meals, just smaller ones—has a set of effects opposite to the positive
affects of fasting, [Dr. Jason Fung](/blog1?tag=Jason%20Fung) argues in _The
Obesity Code (2016)_. With chronic low-calorie dieting, metabolism sinks,
energy and concentration fall, hunger is constant, and one feels colder. This
is the _opposite_ experience from fasting (especially after adaptation).
However, it is this “eating less,” as opposed to true fasting, that is the one
doomed constant in almost every failing modern “diet.” A central reason for
this difference is now understood from controlled trial and biochemical
research, Fung argues: the two conditions have completely different impacts on
the key phenomenon of insulin resistance. Fasting improves it.

This section has suggested the importance of _not_ eating sometimes. Next,
when we do eat, what should be on the menu? What should humans eat to thrive?

# 3\. The Zookeeper's Dilemma

![An inverted Zoo. Which are in better health? \(Photo CCBY Greg
HewGill\)](https://images.squarespace-
cdn.com/content/v1/5720adbdc6fc0891cbcce17c/1499630562497-KJ1IE90GPJNWION2GYJF/1600px-
Orana_Wildlife_Park_feeding_lions.jpg)

An inverted Zoo. Which are in better health? (Photo CCBY Greg HewGill)

Imagine you are a zookeeper. A clear and pressing question about each animal
is: What do they eat? To maintain healthy animals, the first priority is to
try to replicate what they eat in the wild. Feeding carnivorous lions rice
cakes and herbivorous zebras fish cakes will lead to sick and eventually dead
animals on both sides of the fence.

One sign that something is very wrong with modern human diets was expressed by
Dr. Barry Groves. He pointed out that although we observe a great deal of
chronic and degenerative illness among modern humans, this is largely unheard
of among wild animals. However, it _is_ seen among captive and domesticated
animals, specifically, animals that are being fed _the wrong food_.

So what do humans eat? Are we likewise being fed the wrong food?

Well, we _eat_ a great many things, but that does not really help our inquiry.
So what is the next question?

In caring for animals, one would ask: What do they eat _in the wild_?

But again here, with few exceptions, humans today no longer live "in the wild"
in any helpful sense, so this kind of information is also not easy to come by.
Nevertheless, it is possible to investigate what ancestors of modern humans
ate when they much more nearly lived "in the wild" during long, evolutionarily
formative periods, say, 50,000–100,000 or more years ago.

Answers to another question would also help: What kinds of foods do we
_thrive_ on? Humans are able to eat a wide range of food and survive doing it,
but what would be ideal? This shifts the emphasis to what foods humans do best
__ on indefinitely versus merely what they can manage to stay alive on for
some years.

This is a subject of extensive medical research. Sadly, much of it is flawed
due to over-reliance on study designs that are incapable of demonstrating
causation. Such often confounded and poorly designed "studies," however, are
far cheaper to fund and then use as the basis for getting another paper
published. They also form endless fodder for journalistic articles summarizing
such papers, gathering clicks while further distorting what the research
itself can legitimately be said to support (usually not much).

Thus, another "evolutionary" influence on the field of human nutrition is
"publish or perish," both for researchers and journalists. "Arrive at the
truest answers and explain them accurately" is far down the list of priorities
in this system. Another angle is "follow the money." Much of it traces back to
funding from pharmaceutical and "food" companies with, respectively,
overpriced pill bottles and boxes of cheap food-like substances to peddle.

### Highly meat-leaning

Balancing a number of different lines of evidence, I have arrived at the view
that humans are basically carnivores that _can also survive_ on plant foods as
a fall-back. That is, they _can_ survive on plant foods even for long periods,
but cannot do so without suffering degenerative harm. Feeding humans
primarily—and especially only—plant foods causes them to become gradually
malnourished, to sicken in a variety of ways, to "fail to thrive."

This tends to be obscured for two reasons. First, such degeneration can take
years and decades to progress. Second, moderns who move toward vegan diets
often report _feeling better_ , so those diets must be good, right? Third, a
_few_ people seem to do well on vegan diets even over quite long periods and
these are cited as counter examples (while most of the others just suffer
through or quietly quit).

On examination, however, new vegans are quite often reporting feeling much
better after moving _away from_ something rather specific—modern diets of
processed foods. They are not moving away from an ancestral diet rich in fresh
fatty meat, which is also already free of processed foods. After a few years
of veganism, however, with some exceptions, many find their health and mood
deteriorating and are forced to quit.

Just because something is _better_ than something else by some measures, such
as feeling better or losing weight, this does not necessarily mean it is also
_i_ _deal_ or even _good._ It might just be _less bad_ than something else
that came before it. A conventional processed-food diet is quite bad indeed
from a health standpoint. Almost anything could be an improvement over it. As
for veganism itself, with some exceptions, a typical long-term vegan is both
thin and sickly and will soon list up their many and varied health challenges,
which they hope in vain that the next concentrated plant supplement might fix.
Actions, and diets, must be judged by their results, not only their
intentions.

It may come as a surprise to many that tens of thousands of modern humans have
eaten meat exclusively, some for many years, many swearing by the dramatic
health benefits of the change. Many only arrive at this protocol after having
tried all manner of other methods that did not work as well for them, or that
even worsened their conditions. We may not yet understand exactly how or why
this works so well for so many, but the accumulating number of case studies
leaves little doubt that this must be investigated far more carefully than it
has been to date.

# 4\. Best for people and environment

If it is true that meat eating is the best human diet for health, another
question follows. How could large-scale meat eating possibly work for a modern
society? Tiny populations of paleo hunters could do it, but they were working
with massive roaming herds, and many of those species went extinct! Besides,
isn't meat production already bad for animals and the environment, even
without being expanded further?

That they are is a clear impression given in the popular press as "settled
science," so "settled" in fact, that no one even bothers to _call_ it settled.
Questioning it would be a pure heresy of the worst kind. So let us proceed to
do so.

Although the belief that meat production is bad for the environment has become
quite popular, the balance of evidence I have seen indicates that this view is
severely misguided. To explain this, we must turn to some still different
perspectives and sources not _directly_ related to nutrition.

The view that fatty meat is the healthiest primary food for Homo sapiens—that
we are basically carnivores that also have a nifty ability to fall back on
plant foods in a pinch—raises a wider issue. If this were true, how could
modern food production possibly shift from serving carbohydrate-centric to
animal-fat- and protein-centric eating patterns on any large modern scale?

Virtually unquestioned conventional wisdom insists that not only health, but
also "the" environment dictate lower, not higher, reliance on animal products.
The truth, as is surprisingly often the case, may be the exact opposite.
Indeed, _even separate from_ human nutrition issues, properly managed large
herd animals might be the only way to halt and reverse the large-scale
environmental destruction caused by modern plant agriculture and poor land
management. Moreover, whatever environmental destruction caused by grain
agriculture for feeding ruminants cannot be blamed on the cattle. They
naturally thrive on grass rather than grain. And they can eat grass all by
themselves; that's just how they roll.

The key insight is that large heard animals and vast stretches of grassland
_coevolved_ over geologic time. They came into existence and thrived as part
of a single ecological system. One of the last modern examples of this was the
unending sea of bison encountered by the early European explorers of North
America (before some of the pioneers systematically exterminated the animals,
also further undermining cultures that had long subsisted on them).

Decades ago, Allan Savory set out to answer some pressing ecological
questions. He arrived at the view that the most important and underestimated
global issue is the mass desertification of grasslands. And he argues that
there is only one way to effectively alter the process.

Savory's breakthrough was to discover that desertification has not been caused
by “overgrazing,” as is usually thought, but by _mis_ -grazing. Earlier
effects of mis-grazing were then reinforced by misguided herd reduction or
removal, which made the problem still _worse_ , not better. _More_ animals,
properly managed, not fewer, would have been the solution. Today, he and his
institute teach methods of using proper management of herd animals to recover
desertified land and transform it into far more biologically productive
pastures using know-how assembled under the heading “holistic planned
grazing.”

Holistic planned grazing, in my view, constitutes an evolutionary approach to
land management. It recognizes and builds on the ancient co-evolutionary
interplay between grassland flora and large fauna. Large herds kept themselves
moving across grasslands—fertilizing and tilling along the way—while staying
grouped tightly to defend against predators. When they moved on, the land and
flora had plenty of time to recover and regrow. The right know-how on the part
of herd managers can replicate these dynamics without relying on predators to
shape herd movements.

As Savory's methods have shown, such properly managed pastures naturally
retain rainwater through the grass, soil, and other life that grows there, all
in an evolutionary dance with the same types of animals those grasses
themselves co-evolved with. Vast surfaces of the earth were once covered with
thriving grasslands occupied by roving herds of untold millions of beasts.
Holistic management provides a way to recreate habitats that mimic essential
elements of this past in an efficient modern way. A fundamentally biological
problem requires a biological solution, Savory argues, not a chemical or an
industrial one. On this basis, by the way, we can already suggest that "lab-
grown meat" would just further contribute to environmental problems that a
vast resurgence of real animals, properly managed, could help solve.

This would happen to produce a large potential population of animals thriving
in environments quite natural to them. They might then also contribute a
major, nutrient-dense, modern food supply. Dr. Michael Eades arrived at a
similar view after a thoughtful review of Savory's ideas and critiques of them
(2 Jul 2017). He provides an exceptionally clear description of these
practices. Moreover, it is politically notable that herding can be more
decentralized and distributed than mass grain agriculture, enhancing local
self-reliance and independence.

[White Oak Pastures](http://www.whiteoakpastures.com/) in Georgia, USA
provides one inspiring example of transformation of a formerly conventional
ranch. Using multi-species holistic management, it has not only recovered
burned-out agricultural land, but has also breathed new life into a town that
had been nearly deserted.

### Healthy grasslands, herds, and nutrition

The foods most destructive to human health have one thing in common. They are
mass agricultural crops. Sugar, wheat, and corn top the list. All of them are
subsidized by governments. All of them are promoted by official dietary
guidelines. All of them are highly profitable for “food” companies.

And all of them kill and maim. They just do so insidiously through their
contributions to chronic systemic inflammation, excess weight, diabetes, heart
disease, cancer, arthritis, depression, suicide, and the modern conditions of
cognitive degeneration. They are central to feeding an endless supply of
sickened people into modern "healthcare" (sickness management) systems.
Chronic, degenerative conditions provide much of the business for the highly
profitable pharmaceutical and healthcare industries year after year. Sick
people, flowing money. Who wins and who loses? You lose.

Both anecdotal and increasingly also formal evidence continues to build for
beneficial roles of fasting and very low-carb and zerocarb eating in treating,
and especially preventing, the entire spectrum of modern chronic ailments.
However, the interests that can gain from such practices—at the strictest
baseline, sellers of meat and water—are far more dispersed. Their influence
pales in comparison to the concentrated financial, media, and political
resources of big food plus big pharma. Billions go to conglomerates selling
cheap carbohydrates mixed with toxic plant-derived oils. Billions more then go
to companies selling all manner of drugs and aids, which seek to manage the
chronic damage accumulating from the consumption of such alleged food.

Nevertheless, from outside of this sorry system, an unexpected larger picture
is emerging, one precisely opposite the popular hypothesis that mass
agriculturally based vegetarianism is best for both human health and the
environment. This is the hypothesis that distributed, holistically managed
grazing and carnivory are best for _both_ human health _and_ the environment.

The low-carb/high-fat and paleo-oriented nutritionists on the one hand, and
the ecological herders on the other, have independently arrived at different
pieces of a single puzzle. The synthesis of these streams of thought and
practice has profound implications. The results suggest a food system based
around a modern planned pastoralism enhanced with holistic management
practices that mimic the co-evolutionary conditions of grasslands and herd
animals.

### Summary claims of a paleo-carnivore/holistic management synthesis

  1. Humans tend to live best mainly on a blend of fatty acids (fat) and amino acids (protein) derived from animal products. **Animal products are the best sources of energy, structural materials, and highly bio-available micronutrients for humans.** In contrast, eating large amounts of carbohydrates, especially processed ones, and artificial industrial foods such as seed oils, produce gradual metabolic derangement, foremost chronic insulin resistance and its many associated degenerative conditions. Even vegetables, generally considered the unquestionable banner of good health, lack much usable nutrition at all per unit of weight and carry a range of irritants and anti-nutrients (chemicals that block the absorption of nutrients), evolved in a chemical warfare strategy to protect them against being eaten by punishing those who eat them.

  2.  **The best single source for the nutrients humans thrive on is large herd animals.** Seafood is also a good resource, though generally lower in fat (a con, not a pro). Early Homo sapiens and some of their cousins may have contributed to the extinctions of many of their preferred larger, higher-fat species long ago, such as paleo elephants and mammoths, but we still have cattle and buffaloes, which work reasonably well. We also now have property rights (to some degree), which defeat tragedy-of-the-commons overuse issues. Notice the word _commons_ in the phrase "tragedy of the commons." It is there for reason: the tragedy happens when legitimate property rights are too poorly defined and defended.

  3.  **The best way to halt and reverse mass desertification and alleviate related water crises is to manage large herds in ways that sufficiently mimic the natural movement patterns of their original evolutionary contexts.** This is also so _independently_ of food production and human health issues.

  4.  **Humane and holistic ranching practices provide ideal living environments for herd and other animals**. Compared to their evolutionary contexts, animals on holistically managed multi-species farms are protected from random and violent death from predators. Their supplies of food and water are reliable and secured.

  5.  **Mass grain agriculture practices lead to mass destruction of wildlife and long-term soil deterioration.** Some of this grain is fed to animals. Grain feed-lot methods are associated with poorer health and living conditions for animals. The grain system replaces multi-species environments with monocultures, which are vulnerable to disease and soil degeneration and require constant attention, often including irrigation and farm machinery, to prop up. In contrast, cows eat grass all by themselves and grass grows all by itself (a little help from holistic management better replicates natural herd movement patterns that co-evolved with predators to support natural grassland water retention, even in dry climates).

# 5\. Implications

A concluding summary must be far, far shorter than the journey itself. For
understanding of food production: biological/ecological problems require
biological/ecological solutions. Understand where plants and animals have come
from and how they co-evolved, then apply that understanding to modern
practices. This includes herd animals, grasslands, and people too! For
personal use, the principles are: eat meat, drink water, lift heavy, sleep,
play, and sprint once in awhile. These are quite reminiscent of Mark Sisson's
Primal Blueprint laws, but the ones on food are further specified.

These practices appear to have dimensions beyond physical pragmatism. Many who
have tried a plant-free diet for a sufficient period to transition (30 days is
often recommended for a trial) have reported profound health and well-being
improvements, not only in a range of physical conditions, but also in
psychiatric and emotional difficulties. One practitioner in 2009 described the
improvement in emotional state after starting an all-meat diet thus: "The
noise has stopped and the music has begun."

Many also report a profound sense of freedom from former obsessions with food.
All of the decision fatigue associated with whether to eat this or that, when,
and how much, vanishes. Former cravings decline and eventually fade. Faced
with foods that one had previously considered objects of craving, it is hardly
possible to believe that one actually _ate_ those things regularly in the
past.

Hours formerly spent on food can now be spent on engaging productively with
the world and pursuing one's missions. As Dr. Shawn Baker put it, “If you look
at any other animal on the planet, they aren’t looking at a menu and
scratching their head.” As human animals with oversized brains and
imaginations, we all have better things to do than spending inordinate amounts
of time managing and balancing a long list of plant addictions. Freedom from
them is possible. The power of being human can be unleashed from the travails
of plant-consumption/plant-addiction management.

Hunters act and act smartly. Human hunters have thrived to an apex level
through our wits and ability to work together. The "apex diet" is both the
origin of this capability and continues to support it today.

 _I kept references in the text to a minimum for readability. The following
page provides links to some of the best resources I have found on these
subjects, including papers, blogs, articles, and lectures. To follow up on the
many topics and perspectives in the foregoing synthesis, continue
with[Evolutionary Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)._

 _[This article was revised from its original version, mostly shortened and
revised for clarity, on 2 July 2018]._

[__July 09, 2017](/blog1/2017/7/9/a-unified-evolutionary-theory-of-human-and-
environmental-health) / [__Konrad
Graf](/blog1?author=5720adbcb6aa6055fa279727) /
[__[](/blog1/2017/7/9/a-unified-evolutionary-theory-of-human-and-
environmental-health) ](/blog1/2017/7/9/a-unified-evolutionary-theory-of-
human-and-environmental-health)

__[Evolutionary health](/blog1/category/Evolutionary+health),
[Health](/blog1/category/Health)

__[Health](/blog1/tag/Health), [zerocarb](/blog1/tag/zerocarb),
[evolution](/blog1/tag/evolution), [Allan Savory](/blog1/tag/Allan+Savory)

### [Konrad Graf](/blog1?author=5720adbcb6aa6055fa279727)

  * [__A Mixed Hero: A Libertarian ...](/blog1/2017/7/22/hnbbsghwp2hf881mjakf4q2sjnxwh3 "A Mixed Hero: A Libertarian Reassessment of Elon Musk")
  * [Yes and Nein: Borrowing the best ... __](/blog1/2016/10/15/yes-and-nein-borrowing-the-best-from-german-and-american-cultures-and-not-borrowing-the-worst "Yes and Nein: Borrowing the best from German and American cultures \(and not borrowing the worst\)")

  * [About](/)/
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)/
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)/
  * Evolutionary Health/

    * [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health)
    * [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)

  * [Translation](/translation)/
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)/
  * [Blog](/blog1)/
  * [Contact](/contact)/

### Konrad S. Graf

Research and writing portal for the work of Konrad S. Graf. Focus areas
include monetary theory and bitcoin, legal philosophy,  evolutionary health,
Japanese translation, and Spacial Dynamics.

[Blog RSS](http://feeds.feedburner.com/Blog-KonradSGraf "Blog RSS")

[![Creative Commons
License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/80x15.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)  
This site is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

  * [ December 2020 ](/blog1?month=12-2020)
    * Dec 8, 2020  [Texas sues four states for violating the Electors Clause: Initial summary and comment](/blog1/2020/12/8/texas-sues-pa-ga-mi-and-wi-for-violating-the-electors-clause-initial-summary-and-comment) Dec 8, 2020 
  * [ December 2019 ](/blog1?month=12-2019)
    * Dec 24, 2019  [New paper: The Bitcoin Block Size Limit, Artificial Scarcity, and Code-Enhanced Public Club Governance](/blog1/2019/12/24/new-paper-the-bitcoin-block-size-limit-artificial-scarcity-and-code-enhanced-public-club-governance) Dec 24, 2019 
  * [ October 2019 ](/blog1?month=10-2019)
    * Oct 1, 2019  [Sound Money Strikes at the Root: A Review Essay on The Bitcoin Standard](/blog1/2019/10/1/sound-money-strikes-at-the-root-a-review-essay-on-the-bitcoin-standard) Oct 1, 2019 
  * [ April 2019 ](/blog1?month=04-2019)
    * Apr 26, 2019  [Justice as distinct from rule through law](/blog1/2019/4/26/justice-as-distinct-from-rule-through-law) Apr 26, 2019 
  * [ November 2018 ](/blog1?month=11-2018)
    * Nov 30, 2018  [Speaking with one-year-olds and beyond: Age-appropriateness, healthy authority, and social implications](/blog1/2018/11/30/speaking-with-one-year-olds-and-beyond-age-appropriateness-healthy-authority-and-social-implications) Nov 30, 2018 
  * [ December 2017 ](/blog1?month=12-2017)
    * Dec 20, 2017  [Why can't I see that Bitcoin Cash is a scam?](/blog1/2017/12/20/why-cant-i-see-that-bitcoin-cash-is-a-scam) Dec 20, 2017 
  * [ November 2017 ](/blog1?month=11-2017)
    * Nov 21, 2017  [Barbell and beef experiments—Lessons and customizations](/blog1/2017/11/21/barbell-and-beef-experimentslessons-and-customizations) Nov 21, 2017 
  * [ October 2017 ](/blog1?month=10-2017)
    * Oct 11, 2017  [Interview: Bitcoin, blockchains, and economic theory](/blog1/2017/10/10/bitcoin-blockchains-and-economic-theory-an-interview-with-konrad-s-graf) Oct 11, 2017 
  * [ August 2017 ](/blog1?month=08-2017)
    * Aug 20, 2017  [BTC plus BCC showing strong combined gains as market attention shifts to next controversy](/blog1/2017/8/19/btc-plus-bcc-showing-strong-combined-gains) Aug 20, 2017 
    * Aug 5, 2017  [Descendants with modifications: Bitcoin’s new and possibly beneficial evolutionary test](/blog1/2017/8/5/descendants-with-modifications-bitcoins-new-and-possibly-beneficial-evolutionary-test) Aug 5, 2017 
  * [ July 2017 ](/blog1?month=07-2017)
    * Jul 23, 2017  [Additional Issues with the Balance and Accuracy of the Anti-Musk Narrative](/blog1/2017/7/23/77vber91a23965ptgjnph82ktt51f9) Jul 23, 2017 
    * Jul 23, 2017  [A Mixed Hero: A Libertarian Reassessment of Elon Musk](/blog1/2017/7/22/hnbbsghwp2hf881mjakf4q2sjnxwh3) Jul 23, 2017 
    * Jul 9, 2017  [Outlines of a Unified Evolutionary Theory of Human and Environmental Health](/blog1/2017/7/9/a-unified-evolutionary-theory-of-human-and-environmental-health) Jul 9, 2017 
  * [ October 2016 ](/blog1?month=10-2016)
    * Oct 15, 2016  [Yes and Nein: Borrowing the best from German and American cultures (and not borrowing the worst)](/blog1/2016/10/15/yes-and-nein-borrowing-the-best-from-german-and-american-cultures-and-not-borrowing-the-worst) Oct 15, 2016 
    * Oct 2, 2016  [Ancient travel food meets modern travel: My ultimate paleo travel meal option](/blog1/2016/10/2/ancient-meets-modern-my-ultimate-paleo-travel-meal-option) Oct 2, 2016 
  * [ September 2016 ](/blog1?month=09-2016)
    * Sep 29, 2016  [SpaceX can get there, but biology a probable Mars residence limiter](/blog1/2016/9/29/spacex-can-get-there-but-biology-likely-a-critical-mars-residence-limiter) Sep 29, 2016 
  * [ August 2016 ](/blog1?month=08-2016)
    * Aug 16, 2016  [The curious case of the faster-healing knee and the larger steaks](/blog1/2016/8/2/the-curious-case-of-the-faster-healing-knee-and-the-larger-steaks) Aug 16, 2016 
  * [ July 2016 ](/blog1?month=07-2016)
    * Jul 10, 2016  [Block Size Political Economy Follow-Up 3: Differentiation from the 21-million Coin Production Schedule](/blog1/2016/7/8/block-size-political-economy-follow-up-3-differentiation-from-the-21-million-coin-production-schedule) Jul 10, 2016 
    * Jul 9, 2016  [Block Size Political Economy Follow-Up 2: Market Intervention through Voluntary Community Rules](/blog1/2016/7/8/block-size-political-economy-follow-up-2-market-intervention-through-voluntary-community-rules) Jul 9, 2016 
    * Jul 8, 2016  [Block Size Political Economy Follow-Up 1: Software Choice, Market Differentiation, and Term Selection](/blog1/2016/7/8/block-size-political-economy-follow-up-1-software-choice-market-differentiation-and-term-selection) Jul 8, 2016 
  * [ April 2016 ](/blog1?month=04-2016)
    * Apr 22, 2016  [Only the faster profits: A powerful health measure and why it is unadvertised](/blog1/2016/4/22/only-the-faster-profits-a-powerful-health-measure-and-why-it.html) Apr 22, 2016 
  * [ February 2016 ](/blog1?month=02-2016)
    * Feb 4, 2016  [Some misplaced explanations of bitcoins as tradable units](/blog1/2016/2/4/some-misplaced-explanations-of-bitcoins-as-tradable-units.html) Feb 4, 2016 
  * [ November 2015 ](/blog1?month=11-2015)
    * Nov 8, 2015  [Announcing new book on bitcoin and legal theory](/blog1/2015/11/8/announcing-new-book-on-bitcoin-and-legal-theory.html) Nov 8, 2015 
  * [ June 2015 ](/blog1?month=06-2015)
    * Jun 20, 2015  [Preview: “The market for bitcoin transaction inclusion and the temporal root of scarcity”](/blog1/2015/6/20/preview-the-market-for-bitcoin-transaction-inclusion-and-the.html) Jun 20, 2015 
  * [ March 2015 ](/blog1?month=03-2015)
    * Mar 11, 2015  [Bitcoin as a rival digital commodity good: A supplementary comment](/blog1/2015/3/11/bitcoin-as-a-rival-digital-commodity-good-a-supplementary-co.html) Mar 11, 2015 
  * [ February 2015 ](/blog1?month=02-2015)
    * Feb 15, 2015  [Jeff Volek presents research indicating low-carb also best way to improve lipid profiles](/blog1/2015/2/15/jeff-volek-presents-research-indicating-low-carb-also-best-w.html) Feb 15, 2015 
  * [ October 2014 ](/blog1?month=10-2014)
    * Oct 25, 2014  [Sidechained bitcoin substitutes: A monetary commentary](/blog1/2014/10/25/sidechained-bitcoin-substitutes-a-monetary-commentary.html) Oct 25, 2014 
  * [ September 2014 ](/blog1?month=09-2014)
    * Sep 19, 2014  [Bitcoin: Magic, fraud, or 'sufficiently advanced technology'?](/blog1/2014/9/19/bitcoin-magic-fraud-or-sufficiently-advanced-technology.html) Sep 19, 2014 
  * [ August 2014 ](/blog1?month=08-2014)
    * Aug 27, 2014  [A tale of bitcoins and $500 suits: Will a rising-value currency not be used?](/blog1/2014/8/27/a-tale-of-bitcoins-and-500-suits-will-a-rising-value-currenc.html) Aug 27, 2014 
    * Aug 21, 2014  ["Bitcoin 2014 Panel: History of Money & Lessons for Digital Currencies Today" with time-based outline](/blog1/2014/8/21/bitcoin-2014-panel-history-of-money-lessons-for-digital-curr.html) Aug 21, 2014 
    * Aug 19, 2014  [“Bitcoin 2014 Panel: Economic Theory of Bitcoin” with time-based outline](/blog1/2014/8/19/bitcoin-2014-panel-economic-theory-of-bitcoin-with-time-base.html) Aug 19, 2014 
  * [ May 2014 ](/blog1?month=05-2014)
    * May 21, 2014  [Gold standards, optionality, and parallel metallic- and crypto-coin circulations](/blog1/2014/5/21/gold-standards-optionality-and-parallel-metallic-and-crypto.html) May 21, 2014 
    * May 20, 2014  [The helpful fable of the "bitcoin": Duality models revisited](/blog1/2014/5/20/the-helpful-fable-of-the-bitcoin-duality-models-revisited.html) May 20, 2014 
    * May 1, 2014  [Bitcoin weekly weighted average price, July 2010 through April 2014](/blog1/2014/5/1/bitcoin-weekly-weighted-average-price-july-2010-through-apri.html) May 1, 2014 
  * [ March 2014 ](/blog1?month=03-2014)
    * Mar 18, 2014  [New paper: "Revisiting conceptions of commodity and scarcity in light of Bitcoin"](/blog1/2014/3/18/new-paper-revisiting-conceptions-of-commodity-and-scarcity-i.html) Mar 18, 2014 
    * Mar 12, 2014  [Another layer of distinction behind Tucker’s humanitarians and brutalists ](/blog1/2014/3/12/another-layer-of-distinction-behind-tuckers-humanitarians-an.html) Mar 12, 2014 
    * Mar 6, 2014  [Newsweek uncovers its own lack of integrity in alleged “Satoshi Nakamoto” discovery reporting](/blog1/2014/3/6/newsweek-uncovers-its-own-lack-of-integrity-in-alleged-satos.html) Mar 6, 2014 
  * [ February 2014 ](/blog1?month=02-2014)
    * Feb 27, 2014  [MtGox fiasco highlights advantages of Bitcoin and damage from regulation](/blog1/2014/2/27/mtgox-fiasco-highlights-advantages-of-bitcoin-and-damage-fro.html) Feb 27, 2014 
    * Feb 14, 2014  [Summary update on Bitcoin transaction malleability adjustments](/blog1/2014/2/14/summary-update-on-bitcoin-transaction-malleability-adjustmen.html) Feb 14, 2014 
  * [ January 2014 ](/blog1?month=01-2014)
    * Jan 13, 2014  [Legal and economic perspectives in the action-based analysis of Bitcoin](/blog1/2014/1/13/legal-and-economic-perspectives-in-the-action-based-analysis.html) Jan 13, 2014 
  * [ November 2013 ](/blog1?month=11-2013)
    * Nov 7, 2013  [Hyper-monetization reloaded: Another round of bubble talk](/blog1/2013/11/7/hyper-monetization-reloaded-another-round-of-bubble-talk.html) Nov 7, 2013 
    * Nov 3, 2013  [Expanded "On the origins of Bitcoin" paper with empirical supplements, other revisions](/blog1/2013/11/3/expanded-on-the-origins-of-bitcoin-paper-with-empirical-supp.html) Nov 3, 2013 
  * [ October 2013 ](/blog1?month=10-2013)
    * Oct 25, 2013  [Strong positive response to "On the origins of Bitcoin"](/blog1/2013/10/25/strong-positive-response-to-on-the-origins-of-bitcoin.html) Oct 25, 2013 
    * Oct 23, 2013  ["On the origins of Bitcoin," my new work on Bitcoin and monetary theory](/blog1/2013/10/23/on-the-origins-of-bitcoin-my-new-work-on-bitcoin-and-monetar.html) Oct 23, 2013 
    * Oct 3, 2013  [Bitcoin and social theory reflections: A review essay between Amsterdam and Atlanta](/blog1/2013/10/3/bitcoin-and-social-theory-reflections-a-review-essay-between.html) Oct 3, 2013 
  * [ September 2013 ](/blog1?month=09-2013)
    * Sep 15, 2013  [The labor, leisure, and happiness game: Psychology, praxeology, and ethics](/blog1/2013/9/15/the-labor-leisure-and-happiness-game-psychology-praxeology-a.html) Sep 15, 2013 
    * Sep 14, 2013  [Bitcoin as medium of exchange now and unit of account later: The inverse of Koning's medieval coins](/blog1/2013/9/14/bitcoin-as-medium-of-exchange-now-and-unit-of-account-later.html) Sep 14, 2013 
  * [ August 2013 ](/blog1?month=08-2013)
    * Aug 22, 2013  [Recommended: Provocative and important new article on Bitcoin and altcoins](/blog1/2013/8/22/recommended-provocative-and-important-new-article-on-bitcoin.html) Aug 22, 2013 
    * Aug 21, 2013  [A banking risk premium: Mt. Gox XBT/USD spread over Bitstamp](/blog1/2013/8/21/a-banking-risk-premium-mt-gox-xbtusd-spread-over-bitstamp.html) Aug 21, 2013 
  * [ July 2013 ](/blog1?month=07-2013)
    * Jul 25, 2013  [Tiger cub growing up? Bitcoin weekly average closing prices year over year](/blog1/2013/7/25/tiger-cub-growing-up-bitcoin-weekly-average-closing-prices-y.html) Jul 25, 2013 
    * Jul 22, 2013  [Bitcoin, price denomination and fixed-rate fiat conversions](/blog1/2013/7/22/bitcoin-price-denomination-and-fixed-rate-fiat-conversions.html) Jul 22, 2013 
  * [ June 2013 ](/blog1?month=06-2013)
    * Jun 30, 2013  [Now in audio on YouTube: Bitcoin and regression theorem article](/blog1/2013/6/30/now-in-audio-on-youtube-bitcoin-and-regression-theorem-artic.html) Jun 30, 2013 
    * Jun 20, 2013  [Bitcoins per gold ounce weekly close YTD](/blog1/2013/6/20/bitcoins-per-gold-ounce-weekly-close-ytd.html) Jun 20, 2013 
    * Jun 3, 2013  [The m's and b's of millibitcoin redenomination](/blog1/2013/6/3/the-ms-and-bs-of-millibitcoin-redenomination.html) Jun 3, 2013 
  * [ April 2013 ](/blog1?month=04-2013)
    * Apr 13, 2013  [Another bump on the road: Bitcoin and bubbles revisited](/blog1/2013/4/13/another-bump-on-the-road-bitcoin-and-bubbles-revisited.html) Apr 13, 2013 
    * Apr 11, 2013  [Short-term Bitcoin exchange trends as Rorschach tests of economic views](/blog1/2013/4/11/short-term-bitcoin-exchange-trends-as-rorschach-tests-of-eco.html) Apr 11, 2013 
    * Apr 6, 2013  [Hyper-monetization: Questioning the "Bitcoin bubble" bubble](/blog1/2013/4/6/hyper-monetization-questioning-the-bitcoin-bubble-bubble.html) Apr 6, 2013 
  * [ March 2013 ](/blog1?month=03-2013)
    * Mar 30, 2013  [A short Bitcoin commentary on "Deflation and Liberty"](/blog1/2013/3/30/a-short-bitcoin-commentary-on-deflation-and-liberty.html) Mar 30, 2013 
    * Mar 19, 2013  [IN-DEPTH | The sound of one bitcoin: Tangibility, scarcity, and a "hard-money" checklist](/blog1/2013/3/19/in-depth-the-sound-of-one-bitcoin-tangibility-scarcity-and-a.html) Mar 19, 2013 
    * Mar 15, 2013  [Individualism, collectivism, "mere" birds, and how to understand ice hockey](/blog1/2013/3/15/individualism-collectivism-mere-birds-and-how-to-understand.html) Mar 15, 2013 
    * Mar 6, 2013  [Bitcoin and social-theory research highlights: Digging for kryptonite](/blog1/2013/3/6/bitcoin-and-social-theory-research-highlights-digging-for-kr.html) Mar 6, 2013 
  * [ February 2013 ](/blog1?month=02-2013)
    * Feb 27, 2013  [IN-DEPTH | Bitcoins, the regression theorem, and that curious but unthreatening empirical world](/blog1/2013/2/27/in-depth-bitcoins-the-regression-theorem-and-that-curious-bu.html) Feb 27, 2013 
    * Feb 20, 2013  [Misesian action theory is an approach to social theory, not just economics](/blog1/2013/2/20/misesian-action-theory-is-an-approach-to-social-theory-not-j.html) Feb 20, 2013 
    * Feb 16, 2013  [Reeva Steencamp's final message, academic hubris, and a legal philosophy view of the case](/blog1/2013/2/16/reeva-steencamps-final-message-academic-hubris-and-a-legal-p.html) Feb 16, 2013 
    * Feb 10, 2013  [Bank robber chatting with Bill Murray illustrates self-control theory](/blog1/2013/2/10/bank-robber-chatting-with-bill-murray-illustrates-self-contr.html) Feb 10, 2013 
    * Feb 1, 2013  [Action-Based Jurisprudence II: Down under (and back again)](/blog1/2013/2/1/action-based-jurisprudence-ii-down-under-and-back-again.html) Feb 1, 2013 
  * [ January 2013 ](/blog1?month=01-2013)
    * Jan 15, 2013  [BOOK COMMENT | The Constitution was already perfectly clear to begin with](/blog1/2013/1/15/book-comment-the-constitution-was-already-perfectly-clear-to.html) Jan 15, 2013 
  * [ November 2012 ](/blog1?month=11-2012)
    * Nov 8, 2012  [Another mummer's farce gone by (and more rumors of wogs and dragons)](/blog1/2012/11/8/another-mummers-farce-gone-by-and-more-rumors-of-wogs-and-dr.html) Nov 8, 2012 
  * [ August 2012 ](/blog1?month=08-2012)
    * Aug 25, 2012  [The problem with shouting “Tyranny!” in a crowded theater](/blog1/2012/8/25/the-problem-with-shouting-tyranny-in-a-crowded-theater.html) Aug 25, 2012 
    * Aug 16, 2012  [Resolving the paradox of value](/blog1/2012/8/16/resolving-the-paradox-of-value.html) Aug 16, 2012 
    * Aug 10, 2012  [IN-DEPTH | Logic takes on the physics paradoxes: Review essay on The Spacetime Model: A Theory of Everything by Jacky Jerôme](/blog1/2012/8/10/in-depth-logic-takes-on-the-physics-paradoxes-review-essay-o.html) Aug 10, 2012 
    * Aug 10, 2012  [IN-DEPTH | Ron Paul, Flatland, and the left–right long con: Beyond the Nolan Chart](/blog1/2012/8/10/in-depth-ron-paul-flatland-and-the-leftright-long-con-beyond.html) Aug 10, 2012 
    * Aug 10, 2012  [Two types of A Game of Apples](/blog1/2012/8/10/two-types-of-a-game-of-apples.html) Aug 10, 2012 
  * [ April 2012 ](/blog1?month=04-2012)
    * Apr 1, 2012  [REVIEW | Liberty message in Hunger Games book much weaker in film](/blog1/2012/4/1/review-liberty-message-in-hunger-games-book-much-weaker-in-f.html) Apr 1, 2012 
  * [ January 2012 ](/blog1?month=01-2012)
    * Jan 22, 2012  [REVIEW | Primal Body, Primal Mind by Nora Gedgaudas](/blog1/2012/1/22/review-primal-body-primal-mind-by-nora-gedgaudas.html) Jan 22, 2012 
    * Jan 18, 2012  [REVIEW | The Paleo Answer by Loren Cordain](/blog1/2012/1/18/review-the-paleo-answer-by-loren-cordain.html) Jan 18, 2012 
    * Jan 18, 2012  [REVIEW | Four Laws that Drive the Universe by Peter Atkins](/blog1/2012/1/18/review-four-laws-that-drive-the-universe-by-peter-atkins.html) Jan 18, 2012 
    * Jan 13, 2012  [Is the left–right spectrum in flatland? A better way to graph Ron Paul](/blog1/2012/1/13/is-the-leftright-spectrum-in-flatland-a-better-way-to-graph.html) Jan 13, 2012 
  * [ December 2011 ](/blog1?month=12-2011)
    * Dec 31, 2011  [REVIEW | Cells, Gels, and the Engines of Life by Gerald H. Pollack](/blog1/2011/12/31/review-cells-gels-and-the-engines-of-life-by-gerald-h-pollac.html) Dec 31, 2011 
    * Dec 23, 2011  [REVIEW | Focused progress with Body by Science, but integration with proper running methods should be possible](/blog1/2011/12/23/review-focused-progress-with-body-by-science-but-integration.html) Dec 23, 2011 
  * [ November 2011 ](/blog1?month=11-2011)
    * Nov 11, 2011  [Who was it that lived at the corner of Tech and Humanities?](/blog1/2011/11/11/who-was-it-that-lived-at-the-corner-of-tech-and-humanities.html) Nov 11, 2011 
  * [ August 2011 ](/blog1?month=08-2011)
    * Aug 30, 2011  [On more robust theoretical foundations for legal philosophy](/blog1/2011/8/30/on-more-robust-theoretical-foundations-for-legal-philosophy.html) Aug 30, 2011 
  * [ August 2010 ](/blog1?month=08-2010)
    * Aug 5, 2010  [My top six picks out of the 26 books I read in Jan–Jun 2010](/blog1/2010/8/5/my-top-six-picks-out-of-the-26-books-i-read-in-janjun-2010.html) Aug 5, 2010 
  * [ January 2010 ](/blog1?month=01-2010)
    * Jan 3, 2010  [REVIEW | Avatar: Storyworld creation, justice and environmentalism on Pandora and Earth](/blog1/2010/1/3/review-avatar-storyworld-creation-justice-and-environmentali.html) Jan 3, 2010 
    * Jan 2, 2010  [2009 H2 reading and audiobook results](/blog1/2010/1/2/2009-h2-reading-and-audiobook-results.html) Jan 2, 2010 
  * [ December 2009 ](/blog1?month=12-2009)
    * Dec 2, 2009  [REVIEW | The Gods Themselves and climate-science Orwellianism: Is optimism still possible?](/blog1/2009/12/2/review-the-gods-themselves-and-climate-science-orwellianism.html) Dec 2, 2009 
  * [ September 2009 ](/blog1?month=09-2009)
    * Sep 21, 2009  [Getting to the Core of the Energy Debate](/blog1/2009/9/21/getting-to-the-core-of-the-energy-debate.html) Sep 21, 2009 
  * [ July 2009 ](/blog1?month=07-2009)
    * Jul 9, 2009  [2009 H1 results](/blog1/2009/7/9/2009-h1-results.html) Jul 9, 2009 
    * Jul 3, 2009  [REVIEW | The Ethics of Money Production by Jörg Guido Hülsmann](/blog1/2009/7/3/review-the-ethics-of-money-production-by-jorg-guido-hulsmann.html) Jul 3, 2009 
  * [ February 2009 ](/blog1?month=02-2009)
    * Feb 20, 2009  [Vaclav Klaus hits the right notes before the European Parliament](/blog1/2009/2/20/vaclav-klaus-hits-the-right-notes-before-the-european-parlia.html) Feb 20, 2009 
    * Feb 17, 2009  [The miles per gallon illusion](/blog1/2009/2/17/the-miles-per-gallon-illusion.html) Feb 17, 2009 
    * Feb 17, 2009  ["Enemies of liberty" more accurately located](/blog1/2009/2/17/enemies-of-liberty-more-accurately-located.html) Feb 17, 2009 
    * Feb 4, 2009  [IN-DEPTH | President Obama's inaugural address—analysis and commentary](/blog1/2009/2/4/in-depth-president-obamas-inaugural-addressanalysis-and-comm.html) Feb 4, 2009 
  * [ January 2009 ](/blog1?month=01-2009)
    * Jan 20, 2009  [Open letter to Bloomberg reporters on "economists of all stripes" claim](/blog1/2009/1/20/open-letter-to-bloomberg-reporters-on-economists-of-all-stri.html) Jan 20, 2009 
    * Jan 6, 2009  [Journalism values dead in US MSM, judging from its coverage of Gaza](/blog1/2009/1/6/journalism-values-dead-in-us-msm-judging-from-its-coverage-o.html) Jan 6, 2009 
  * [ December 2008 ](/blog1?month=12-2008)
    * Dec 31, 2008  [My year by the numbers](/blog1/2008/12/31/my-year-by-the-numbers.html) Dec 31, 2008 
    * Dec 15, 2008  [What can one person do?](/blog1/2008/12/15/what-can-one-person-do.html) Dec 15, 2008 
  * [ November 2008 ](/blog1?month=11-2008)
    * Nov 26, 2008  [Washington State Constitution: Article I, Section 1](/blog1/2008/11/26/washington-state-constitution-article-i-section-1.html) Nov 26, 2008 
    * Nov 20, 2008  [A formula to help with the "Inevitable Question"](/blog1/2008/11/20/a-formula-to-help-with-the-inevitable-question.html) Nov 20, 2008 
    * Nov 20, 2008  [The perfect crime is the one not detected](/blog1/2008/11/20/the-perfect-crime-is-the-one-not-detected.html) Nov 20, 2008 
    * Nov 5, 2008  [1% for Obama; 100% for Brother](/blog1/2008/11/5/1-for-obama-100-for-brother.html) Nov 5, 2008 
  * [ October 2008 ](/blog1?month=10-2008)
    * Oct 31, 2008  ["Successes" of intervention; the emotional challenge of looking at the truth](/blog1/2008/10/31/successes-of-intervention-the-emotional-challenge-of-looking.html) Oct 31, 2008 
  * [ August 2008 ](/blog1?month=08-2008)
    * Aug 26, 2008  [REVIEW | Law and Revolution II: Religion, law, and economic transformation](/blog1/2008/8/26/review-law-and-revolution-ii-religion-law-and-economic-trans.html) Aug 26, 2008 
  * [ July 2008 ](/blog1?month=07-2008)
    * Jul 4, 2008  [Who needs war and crime?](/blog1/2008/7/4/who-needs-war-and-crime.html) Jul 4, 2008 
  * [ June 2008 ](/blog1?month=06-2008)
    * Jun 24, 2008  [REVIEW | Unstoppable Global Warming by Fred Singer and Dennis Avery](/blog1/2008/6/24/review-unstoppable-global-warming-by-fred-singer-and-dennis.html) Jun 24, 2008 
    * Jun 17, 2008  [Prices should be falling](/blog1/2008/6/17/prices-should-be-falling.html) Jun 17, 2008 
  * [ April 2008 ](/blog1?month=04-2008)
    * Apr 24, 2008  [The gutting of economics as an anti-state force by fear of offending the powers](/blog1/2008/4/24/the-gutting-of-economics-as-an-anti-state-force-by-fear-of-o.html) Apr 24, 2008 
    * Apr 10, 2008  [The intellectual disease, and part of the inoculation](/blog1/2008/4/10/the-intellectual-disease-and-part-of-the-inoculation.html) Apr 10, 2008 
  * [ February 2008 ](/blog1?month=02-2008)
    * Feb 14, 2008  [Avoid and scurry: FactChecker's Ron Paul smear distracts from the real issues](/blog1/2008/2/14/avoid-and-scurry-factcheckers-ron-paul-smear-distracts-from.html) Feb 14, 2008 

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf) [
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A) [
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf)[
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A)[
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

