[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Outlier Ventures becomes lead investor in Haja Networks to break down data
silos

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

[mc4wp_form id='4618']

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/blog-
post-9.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/) [Lawrence Lundy
Joins Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/)

April 2016  

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/blog-
post-7.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-vc-to-
hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/) [Outlier
Ventures Becomes First VC To Hire ‘Head of Crypto-Economics’ With Appointment
of Eden Dhaliwal](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-
vc-to-hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/)

August 2017  

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Outlier Ventures becomes lead investor in Haja Networks to break down data
silos

Posted by Outlier Ventures becomes lead investor in Haja Networks to break
down data silos - June 2018

[
__](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-becomes-lead-investor-in-haja-networks-to-break-down-data-silos) [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-becomes-lead-investor-in-haja-networks-to-break-down-data-
silos&title=Outlier Ventures becomes lead investor in Haja Networks to break
down data silos) [
__](https://twitter.com/share?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-
becomes-lead-investor-in-haja-networks-to-break-down-data-silos&text=Outlier
Ventures becomes lead investor in Haja Networks to break down data silos) [
__](https://telegram.me/share/url?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-becomes-lead-investor-in-haja-networks-to-break-down-data-
silos&text=Outlier Ventures becomes lead investor in Haja Networks to break
down data silos)

_Ex-Protocol Labs & IPFS team create new protocol to enable scalable
decentralised databases for all_

![Outlier Ventures becomes lead investor in Haja Networks to break down data
silos Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/Haja-image.png)

London ( **12th June 2018** ) -- Leading blockchain and Web 3.0 venture
capital firm Outlier Ventures becomes lead investor in, and strategic partner
to, Haja Networks, closing a funding round that also features other prominent
partners and investors including Polychain Capital, BigchainDB, and Creathor
Ventures.



Haja Networks is an ambitious team comprised of some of the early team behind
OrbitDB and IPFS that is building two new and complementary open-source
protocols to enable decentralised databases.

  * **Decentralised Database Protocol: An open protocol to build decentralised databases that enables users to own and control their data. The protocol integrates with existing databases, unlocking them to the decentralised web, and enables interoperability between structured data sources. **



  * **Decentralised Database Network: A marketplace for decentralised database services allowing providers to monetize their software whilst data hungry businesses have straightforward access to the widest range of services.**



Haja Networks is led by CEO and pioneering developer Samuli Pöyhtäri
([@haadcode](https://github.com/haadcode)) and Chief Technology Officer, Vesa-
Ville Piiroinen. Piiroinen has decades of experience in distributed systems
and enterprise database and security solutions. Pöyhtäri is a former IPFS core
developer, and is at the forefront of decentralised databases and storage
systems. He is also well known for creating OrbitDB a peer-to-peer database
for the decentralised web that is used by various decentralized applications
and projects.



Jamie Burke, CEO, Outlier Ventures commented: “Blockchains today generally
can’t handle most database sizes and throughput volumes and that will likely
still be the case even when proposed scalability solutions come online. In
fact, in many cases a blockchain is simply overkill for the majority of use-
cases but there is still a requirement for decentralisation just without
making all the trade-offs between cost, speed and security. Therefore what’s
often really needed is interoperability between decentralized networks. It’s
this that holds the most promise to a world full of decentralised applications
that have high performance and a great user experience to rival and ultimately
replace today’s centralised web.”



Haja Networks have already firmly established themselves as a critical
component to useable decentralised databases partnering with Berlin based
BigchainDB who have now also made a strategic investment.



Christian Weniger, Partner at Creathor Ventures commented: “Haja Networks’
founders impressed us with their clear product vision and sector expertise. We
are excited to support them on their quest to bring interoperability to
decentralized networks.”



Pöyhtäri added: “There are great projects seeking to make decentralised data
storage and data exchange possible, but there’s a significant gap for
decentralized databases, which are able to update and structure data in a
scalable way.”



He continued: “The team at Outlier Ventures recognise and share our vision.
The capital investment itself is just one small part of the partnership.
Outlier have the knowledge, network and depth of team to help us deliver our
vision over several years to become a foundational part of the new
decentralized web.”

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

