[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Outlier Ventures joins the British Private Equity & Venture Capital
Association

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

[mc4wp_form id='4618']

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/blog-
post-9.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/) [Lawrence Lundy
Joins Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/)

April 2016  

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/blog-
post-7.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-vc-to-
hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/) [Outlier
Ventures Becomes First VC To Hire ‘Head of Crypto-Economics’ With Appointment
of Eden Dhaliwal](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-
vc-to-hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/)

August 2017  

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Outlier Ventures joins the British Private Equity & Venture Capital
Association

Posted by Outlier Ventures joins the British Private Equity & Venture Capital
Association - May 2018

[
__](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-joins-the-british-private-equity-venture-capital-association) [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-joins-the-british-private-equity-venture-capital-
association&title=Outlier Ventures joins the British Private Equity & Venture
Capital Association) [
__](https://twitter.com/share?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-
joins-the-british-private-equity-venture-capital-association&text=Outlier
Ventures joins the British Private Equity & Venture Capital Association) [
__](https://telegram.me/share/url?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-joins-the-british-private-equity-venture-capital-
association&text=Outlier Ventures joins the British Private Equity & Venture
Capital Association)

![Outlier Ventures joins the British Private Equity & Venture Capital
Association Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/05/BVCA_Member_Firm_BLACK.jpg)

_Welcoming Europe’s first blockchain VC signals the maturity of blockchain
investment and distributed ledger technology_

Leading blockchain and Web 3.0 venture capital firm Outlier Ventures announces
it has joined the British Private Equity & Venture Capital Association to
actively engage with the British VC community on the emerging blockchain and
distributed ledger industry. Outlier Ventures’ team has established
significant expertise in distributed ledger technology, token economies, and
compliance considerations, which the firm will share through BVCA’s extensive
events and community programme.

Stephan Apel, Managing Partner at Outlier Ventures commented: “The BVCA plays
a critical role in building industry knowledge and best practice through its
focus on training, events, and research. This work leads to higher
professional standards across the industry which Outlier Ventures has always
been keen to bring to the emerging distributed ledger sector. We look forward
to learning from the BVCA community as well as sharing our expertise on the
emerging blockchain and token economy.”

The BVCA’s Venture Capital Committee Chair David Mott added: “The distributed
ledger sector is a hotbed of innovation as teams focus on reimaging today’s
web. Naturally, this type of wholesale innovation requires appropriate funding
and offers significant opportunities to our industry. Outlier Ventures has
established a reputation for mature practice and deep expertise around how
blockchain converges with other deep technologies, such as Artificial
Intelligence. We’re excited to have them join the BVCA.”

Outlier Ventures is actively working with policymakers and the wider industry
to further knowledge sharing on the evolution of decentralised technologies.
The company is engaged with the All-Party Parliamentary Group on blockchain,
are a member of The Wall Street Blockchain Alliance and sits on Tech UK’s
distributed ledger working group. The firm’s CEO Jamie Burke recently
presented to the European Parliament on the evolution of Robotics and AI, his
presentation is available on request.

The recently published [Convergence Ecosystem
report](https://outlierventures.io/research/introducing-the-convergence-
ecosystem/) from Outlier Ventures is also now available and outlines the
evolving decentralised technology stack and the emerging foundations of a new
data infrastructure, which supports entirely new economic models.

**About BVCA**

[The British Private Equity & Venture Capital Association
(BVCA)](http://www.bvca.co.uk/) is the industry body for the UK private equity
and venture capital industry. The BVCA has over 700 member firms, representing
the vast majority of UK-based private equity and venture capital firms and
their advisers.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

