[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Outlier Ventures joins major automakers, startups, technology companies and
others to launch Mobility Open Blockchain Initiative (MOBI)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

[mc4wp_form id='4618']

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/blog-
post-9.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/) [Lawrence Lundy
Joins Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/)

April 2016  

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/blog-
post-7.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-vc-to-
hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/) [Outlier
Ventures Becomes First VC To Hire ‘Head of Crypto-Economics’ With Appointment
of Eden Dhaliwal](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-
vc-to-hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/)

August 2017  

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Outlier Ventures joins major automakers, startups, technology companies and
others to launch Mobility Open Blockchain Initiative (MOBI)

Posted by Outlier Ventures joins major automakers, startups, technology
companies and others to launch Mobility Open Blockchain Initiative (MOBI) -
May 2018

[
__](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-joins-major-automakers-startups-technology-companies-and-others-to-
launch-mobility-open-blockchain-initiative-mobi) [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-joins-major-automakers-startups-technology-companies-and-others-to-
launch-mobility-open-blockchain-initiative-mobi&title=Outlier Ventures joins
major automakers, startups, technology companies and others to launch Mobility
Open Blockchain Initiative \(MOBI\)) [
__](https://twitter.com/share?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-
joins-major-automakers-startups-technology-companies-and-others-to-launch-
mobility-open-blockchain-initiative-mobi&text=Outlier Ventures joins major
automakers, startups, technology companies and others to launch Mobility Open
Blockchain Initiative \(MOBI\)) [
__](https://telegram.me/share/url?url=https://outlierventures.io/outlier-
ventures-joins-major-automakers-startups-technology-companies-and-others-to-
launch-mobility-open-blockchain-initiative-mobi&text=Outlier Ventures joins
major automakers, startups, technology companies and others to launch Mobility
Open Blockchain Initiative \(MOBI\))

## BMW, Bosch, Ford, General Motors, Renault, ZF, Accenture, Context Labs,
IBM, and others participate as founding members

##

![Outlier Ventures joins major automakers, startups, technology companies and
others to launch Mobility Open Blockchain Initiative \(MOBI\) Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/Image-1.jpg)

New consortium explores how blockchain will reinvent mobility and address
industry shifts [Dubai], May 2, 2018 at 12:00pm GMT — MOBI, the Mobility Open
Blockchain Initiative, announces its formation to explore blockchain for use
in a new digital mobility ecosystem that could make transportation safer, more
affordable, and more widely accessible. MOBI is actively working with
companies accounting for over 70% of global vehicle production in terms of
market share. MOBI and partners, including, BMW, Bosch, Ford, General Motors,
Renault, ZF, Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Services USA and others seek to foster
an ecosystem where businesses and consumers have security and sovereignty over
their driving data, manage ride-share and carshare transactions, and store
vehicle identity and usage information.

Blockchain technology operates by distributing information to a network of
independent computers, ensuring that transactions are secure and data privacy,
ownership rights, and integrity are protected. Working in a consortium allows
MOBI and partners to create transparency and trust among users, reduce risk of
fraud, and reduce frictions and transaction costs in mobility, such as fees or
surcharges applied by third-parties.

Chris Ballinger, former Chief Financial Officer and Director of Mobility
Services at Toyota Research Institute, is joining MOBI as Chairman and CEO to
coordinate this initiative and create a more open platform where users,
owners, mobility service companies, and infrastructure providers can better
control and monetize their assets, including their data.

“Blockchain and related trust enhancing technologies are poised to redefine
the automotive industry and how consumers purchase, insure and use vehicles,”
said Ballinger. “By bringing together automakers, suppliers, startups, and
government agencies, we can accelerate adoption for the benefit of businesses,
consumers and communities.”

Through an open-source approach to blockchain software tools and standards,
the MOBI consortium hopes to stimulate more rapid and scalable adoption of the
technology by other companies developing autonomous vehicle and mobility
services. MOBI is pleased to connect global mobility providers with blockchain
innovators as well as government and non-government agencies, and institutions
to collaborate on the development of blockchain-enabled vehicle data and
mobility services applications.

MOBI’s approach to ecosystem development is open and inclusive, inviting
stakeholders from across the entire mobility value chain to establish a
“minimum viable network”. This includes automakers, public transportation and
toll road providers, other forms of transportation, technology firms,
blockchain firms, academic institutions, startup innovators, and regulatory
bodies across the globe.

Joining Chris Ballinger as co-founders and members of the initial Board of
Directors are Ashley Lannquist from Blockchain at Berkeley and David Luce, a
veteran technology leader. Dan Harple, CEO of Context Labs, Joseph Lubin, Co-
Founder of Ethereum and Founder of ConsenSys, Brian Behlendorf, Executive
Director of Hyperledger, Jamie Burke, CEO of Outlier Ventures, and Zaki
Manian, Executive Director of the Trusted IoT Alliance, join MOBI’s Board of
Advisors.

Initially, MOBI will be working with its partners on projects related to:

• Vehicle identity, history and data tracking

• Supply chain tracking, transparency, and efficiency

• Autonomous machine and vehicle payments

• Secure mobility ecosystem commerce

• Data markets for autonomous and human driving

• Car sharing and ride hailing

• Usage-based mobility pricing and payments for vehicles, insurance, energy,
congestion, pollution, infrastructure, etc.

MOBI and its partners announced their collaboration today at the Future
Blockchain Summit.

MOBI’s partners announcing today include:

Accenture, Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Services USA, Beyond Protocol Inc,
BigchainDB, Blockchain at Berkeley, BMW, Bosch, Chronicled, ConsenSys Systems,
Context Labs, Crypto Valley Association, Dashride, Deon Digital AG, Digital
Twin Labs, DOVU, Fetch.ai, FOAM, Ford, General Motors, Hyperledger, IBM, the
IOTA Foundation, Luxoft, MotionWerk, NuCypher, Oaken Innovations, Ocean
Protocol, Outlier Ventures, Renault, Ride Austin, Shareing, Shift, Spherical
Analytics, the Trusted IoT Alliance, VeChain, Xain, and ZF Friedrichshafen AG.

“We believe blockchain will transform the way people and businesses interact,
creating new opportunities in mobility. We look forward to working together
with our industry colleagues as part of MOBI to set the standards for the
mobility ecosystem of tomorrow.” – Rich Strader, Vice President, Mobility
Product Solutions, Ford Motor Corporation

“Blockchain technology is by essence decentralized, and its full potential
needs to be assessed by working in an open ecosystem. That is why, it is
natural for Groupe Renault to take part of the MOBI consortium. This
consortium will be a great opportunity to share and learn about the
possibilities that can be opened by the Distributed Ledger Technology, applied
to the automotive ecosystem. Ultimately, we aim to work together to define
future standards and use-cases that will make an easier everyday life for our
customers.” - Sophie Schmidtlin, Global Director

“Bosch is thrilled to be involved in this initiative to get nearer to its
vision for a safer and more transparent connected future of the Mobility
Industry!” – Peter Busch, Distributed Ledger Technologies Automotive

“As one of the world’s leading companies for automotive technologies, ZF is
constantly pushing to make mobility more efficient and convenient. In taking
part in the Mobility Open Blockchain Initiative, we can drive benefit for our
customers by developing secure and efficient customer solutions for the future
autonomous mobility”, says Arwed Niestroj, Vice President, Global Innovation
Hubs and Digital Transformation at ZF

“A set of blockchain standards for the mobility industry will allow auto,
infrastructure and service providers to efficiently communicate and transact
with each other. Bringing the industry together and building interoperable
blockchain networks is key to helping the automotive industry unleash the
potential of blockchain. IBM is contributing our expertise in building
blockchain consortia to the group to help accelerate development and
ultimately benefit consumers." – Sachin Lulla, Vice President & Partner, IBM
Automotive Industry Leader

"From the handling of vehicle ID numbers and collision histories to the
complex supply chains that lead to assembly lines and dealerships, blockchain
offers new levels of data security and transparency,” said Accenture Managing
Director and Industrial and Automotive Innovation Lead Teodoro Lio. “Industry
leaders are just beginning to understand the unique characteristics of this
technology and its diverse forms. This forum will help put them on the leading
edge of blockchain’s possibilities to improve industry efficiencies, safety
controls and the overall transportation experience."

“At ConsenSys, we are dedicated to building the Ethereum ecosystem and are
committed to supporting new use cases across all industries. As one of our
first ventures into the automotive industry, we’re excited to support MOBI’s
exploration and development of blockchain solutions that will enable all
parties in the automotive supply chain to benefit from digitization and the
seamless exchange of data and immutability of their records.” – Joseph Lubin,
Founder of ConsenSys & Co-Founder of Ethereum

“Our collaboration with Chris Ballinger and MOBI's founding team has
integrated key structural and governance elements from the Pentalytics
modeling we deployed in the co-founding of the Open Music Initiative (open-
music.org), which brought together over 250 leading global stakeholders
pursuing interoperability and transparency in their industry. MOBI's model
further offers great potential for accelerated market adoption of
transformative blockchain-enabled technologies,” said Dan Harple, CEO of
Context Labs, Investor, and MIT Sloan Fellow.

"We're pleased to be a part of MOBI and collaborating with industry leaders on
the development of blockchain-enabled vehicle data and mobility services
applications and systems," said Brian Behlendorf, executive director of
Hyperledger. "We look forward to working together with this community to
create transparency and trust among users, as well as reduce risk of fraud and
transaction costs in mobility with open distributed ledger technologies."

"After more than a year of discussions, it is encouraging to see a global
industry gather around blockchain technology and begin to lay the groundwork
for the future of mobility. We are excited for the opportunities that lie
ahead as a member of MOBI and as a team will continue to work on
implementations and applications that allow us to apply our unique skill set
and knowledge in an industry we are passionate about." – John Gerryts, CEO,
Oaken Innovation

“The Trusted IoT Alliance is pleased to join in the formation of MOBI. We
believe that the automotive and mobility sector offers some of the best
potential applications of blockchain in smart contract enabled IoT devices.
TIoTA is enthusiastic about the progress of this initiative and the potential
for accelerated exploration and adoption of blockchain technology facilitated
by MOBI and TIoTA.” – Zaki Manian, Executive Director of the Trusted IoT
Alliance

## About MOBI

MOBI is a newly created nonprofit foundation formed to accelerate adoption and
to promote standards in blockchain, distributed ledgers, and related
technologies for the benefit of the mobility industry, consumers, and
communities. MOBI and our partners are creating simple, standard and digital
ways of identifying cars, people, and trips, of paying for mobility services,
and securely exchanging and monetizing data in ways that preserve property
rights and privacy. MOBI is working with most of the world’s large automakers
and many mobility ecosystem players, along with many start-ups, non-profits,
governments, transit agencies, and technology companies. We are convinced that
by working together we can make mobility services more efficient, affordable,
greener, safer and less congested. MOBI is an open, inclusive body that acts
as a ‘trusted convener’ and partner to entities in the emerging ecosystem of
pay for use, on demand, connected, and increasingly autonomous mobility
services. MOBI itself is technology and ledger agnostic.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

