[ Woobull ](https://woobull.com)

  * [About](https://woobull.com/about/)
  * [Charts](http://charts.woobull.com/)
  * [Articles](https://woobull.com/)
  * [→ Research](https://woobull.com/tag/research/)
  * [→ Infographics](https://woobull.com/tag/infographic/)
  * [→ Humour](https://woobull.com/tag/humour/)
  * [→ Bitcoin](https://woobull.com/tag/bitcoin/)
  * [→ Markets](https://woobull.com/tag/markets/)
  * [→ Dataviz](https://woobull.com/tag/data-visualisation/)
  * [→ Altcoins](https://woobull.com/tag/altcoins/)
  * [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNSawUAJPtGqnhpucPqdDrw)

[ ](https://twitter.com/woonomic "Twitter")

Subscribe

[Markets](https://woobull.com/tag/markets/)

# Overheard in a chatroom: Forecasting vs predicting

I think of TA [technical analysis and charting that traders do] in exactly
this forecast context. Veteran traders like Peter Brandt are forecasters. He's
had decades of trading, he's removed much of his personal bias. He looks at
chart setups more objectively.

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

#### [Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/)

Jun 15, 2018 • 2 min read

**" Overheard in a chatroom"** is an experimental format I'm trying. They are
real conversations coming from my participation on Twitter and social channels
like Telegram and Slack. I've cleaned them up to make them more legible for
the reader. My goal is to save time from long hand blog posts while hopefully
keeping the form relatively engaging.

* * *

### SK:

This prediction was spot on:

> I think we are gonna go to $5500-5700 next, I can't see $7000 holding. Most
> likely we'll balance a bit, then we'll slide through. Long timeframes here,
> looking into June for rough timing of this to play out at a best guess. /1
> [pic.twitter.com/pCN0N97vp6](https://t.co/pCN0N97vp6)
>
> -- Willy Woo (@woonomic) [May 26,
> 2018](https://twitter.com/woonomic/status/1000223528803762176?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw)

Well done, @willywoo. :-)

Still playing out. But, mostly according to the script. Haven’t seen the
updated NVT charts, yet.

* * *

### WW:

Thanks, but not to be princess about it these ain't predictions. I try to
forecast based on [derivatives of historic] price, volume and blockchain data.

[![forecasting-vs-
predicting-1](https://woobull.com/content/images/2018/06/forecasting-vs-
predicting-1.png)](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/difference-between-forecast-
prediction-lakshminarayanan-t-p/)

... looking at what happened in the past to see what may be more likely in the
future.

The corollary from this theme is weather forecasting... You take known models
of complex interaction and you come up with a likely outcome. e.g. "tomorrow
could likely be a storm", "tomorrow is very likely to be sunny", "tomorrow is
a transition zone of two weather systems, so hard to tell"

I think of TA [technical analysis and charting that traders do] in exactly
this forecast context. Veteran traders like [Peter
Brandt](https://twitter.com/PeterLBrandt) are forecasters. He's had decades of
trading, he's removed much of his personal bias. He looks at chart setups more
objectively. Like he knows the statistical probability of say a bull wedge
breakout being 67% up and 33% down.

[The acid test for forecasting in my opinion is whether it can be codified it
into an algorithm].

Most people have too much bias, it's like they are "willing the price" in a
direction they want, then drawing the chart. And noob traders are the most
subjective, they try to predict and not forecast.

To this point, everytime I tweet a bear call, the noob troll armies attack,
they don't wanna hear it. [Vinny Lingham's](https://twitter.com/VinnyLingham)
bearish tweets [during the Bitcoin scaling debate] last year had the same
issue, the trolling got so bad he ceased making price calls. This is the
masses losing objectivity and just getting emotional, which is exactly what we
as traders wanna drop.

* * *

### NK:

In the past, it became unprofitable for miners and I lost a ton on cloud
mining contracts... don't make my mistake. I was so green then but still...
hindsight

* * *

### WW:

NK, I think what you're saying is "what about black swans?" The stuff we can't
forecast as we've not seen it before, i.e. we don't have data, so therefore
our predictability is terrible. [Author of Black Swan], Nassim Taleb, got rich
betting on the edge cases being priced wrong in markets, he went into
financial instruments to milk that flaw in modelling. (Same stuff those two
young guys in [The Big Short](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1596363/) movie
were doing).

With the mining corollary, I actually think that was forecastable. There was
enough data to show trends, the market was big enough, so was less random, all
that was missing was bringing in data from chip manufacturing and its impact
on costs. Admittedly these are complex and non-linear, you ideally need
algorithms and simulations (as you need a speculative future price curve for
Bitcoin as an input) but industrial scale miners have this stuff going on in
the background.

* * *

.  
.  
[yadda yadda]  
.  
.  
_when moon?_  
.  
_lambos!_  
.  
.

## Sign up for more like this.

Enter your email Subscribe

[

## Supply Shock, predicting price by quantifying intent to buy and sell

IntroductionIn any market, price is driven by demand and supply. This is a
fundamental. The most obvious way of seeing this is in the bid and asks
between buyers and sellers. A more nuanced way would be to wave a magic wand
and gauge the intent of investors before the

](/quantifying-supply-shock/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Aug 10, 2021 • 4 min read

[

## The two types of Altcoins, an investor's view

This is a thread on altcoins, first published on Twitter. Altcoins are
nuanced. We have: Protocol coinsUtility tokensSecurity tokensNon-fungible
tokensBut to an investor, there's only 2 types. Oscillators and Degenerators.
You can spot them on this chart of the entire market. The vast majority of
alt-coins are Degenerators. Their price

](/the-two-types-of-altcoins-an-investors-view/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Nov 7, 2019 • 2 min read

[

## Introducing the Difficulty Ribbon, signaling the best times to buy Bitcoin

Introducing the Bitcoin Difficulty Ribbon. When the ribbon compresses, or
flips negative, these are the best times to buy Bitcoin. The ribbon consists
of simple moving averages on mining difficulty so we can easily see the rate
of change in difficulty. How it the Difficulty Ribbon worksThis visualisation
of network

](/introducing-the-difficulty-ribbon-the-best-times-to-buy-bitcoin/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Aug 1, 2019 • 2 min read

[Woobull](https://woobull.com) (C) 2022

[Powered by Ghost](https://ghost.org/)

