![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/oxt-now-live-on-okex/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/oxt-now-live-on-okex/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/oxt-now-live-on-okex/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/oxt-now-live-on-okex/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/oxt-now-live-on-okex/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/oxt-now-live-on-okex/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![OXT Now Live on OKEx, Orchid VPN Available in Mandarin, Indonesian, Russian
and
More](/static/9dec69158682ad9e9ae12637dca04a94/Orchid_BlogImage_OKExEN.png)

# OXT Now Live on OKEx, Orchid VPN Available in Mandarin, Indonesian, Russian
and More

Apr 1, 2020  
  

[OKEx](https://www.okex.com/), one of the world's largest digital asset
exchanges, will now allow its millions of customers around the world trade and
transact in Orchid's digital currency, OXT. With the OKEx listing, OXT is now
available to power secure internet browsing and communication in more than a
hundred countries around the world. Orchid's latest release adds support for
Mandarin, Korean, Japanese, Indonesian and Russian-speaking users.

Orchid co-founder and CEO Dr. Steven Waterhouse (Seven) said: “Surveillance
and censorship are growing internationally — this is a pattern we've seen
emerge in the wake of previous crises. OKEx listing Orchid makes it easier for
international users to acquire OXT and start using it to access private
bandwidth; this is an important day for the growth of internet freedom.”

“Orchid is a perfect case to show how the combination of token economic model
and commercial application works. We are happy to be able to have OXT as a
member of the OKEx ecosystem, where we strive to offer professional and retail
traders one-stop trading services while promoting mutually with the project
teams,” said Jay Hao, CEO of OKEx. “We will continue to find quality
investment projects and provide enhanced trading experience for our global
users.”

Orchid is a unique VPN: it is powered by a digital currency, so paying for
bandwidth doesn't require any centralized party. VPN service in the app is
purchased with OXT from the connected account, and you pay only for the
bandwidth that you actually use. New Orchid users can open an account by
creating an Ethereum address using Metamask or another Ethereum wallet, and
purchasing at least $4 in OXT and $1 of ETH from OKEx or another exchange.
Once the account is created, a QR code appears that contains account
credentials that you can share with as many friends, family, or devices as
you'd like. Anyone can copy or scan that account into the app for a 1-step
setup.

To learn more about OKEx, please visit them [here](http://www.okex.com).
Download the Orchid app to control your privacy in a new way
[here](https://www.orchid.com/download).

About Orchid Orchid takes a new approach to digital privacy with the first
peer-to-peer, incentivized privacy network. On the network, anyone can buy and
sell bandwidth using Orchid's digital currency (OXT). Users can browse
privately and access content without being limited by their geography. With
its decentralized design, multi-hop architecture, and Open Source ethos,
Orchid offers users unprecedented digital privacy in a trustless context.

Learn more at Orchid.com and follow the project on Twitter
([@OrchidProtocol](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)),
[Medium](https://medium.com/orchid-labs), and
[Telegram](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial).

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [Partnerships](/tag/partnerships/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22OXT%20Now%20Live%20on%20OKEx%2C%20Orchid%20VPN%20Available%20in%20Mandarin%2C%20Indonesian%2C%20Russian%20and%20More%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Foxt-
now-live-on-okex%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Foxt-
now-live-on-okex%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Foxt-
now-live-on-okex%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

[

#### OXT is Listed on Vauld

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

Jan 14, 2022

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

