![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/oxt-now-live-on-bittrex-global/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/oxt-now-live-on-bittrex-global/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/oxt-now-live-on-bittrex-global/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/oxt-now-live-on-bittrex-global/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/oxt-now-live-on-bittrex-global/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/oxt-now-live-on-bittrex-global/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![OXT Now Live on Bittrex
Global](/static/ff88bddd32925fb727648ae7acf8d2d4/Orchid_BlogImage_BittrexGlobal.jpg)

# OXT Now Live on Bittrex Global

Apr 9, 2020  
  

Bittrex Global, the international digital asset trading platform based in
Liechtenstein, will now allow its users to access Orchid's digital currency,
OXT. Bittrex Global accepts customers around the world (excluding the U.S.),
marking a continuation of Orchid's international expansion.

Orchid co-founder and CEO Dr. Steven Waterhouse said: "Bittrex has a long-
standing commitment to security, a value that we share here at Orchid. Making
OXT widely available for our users in Europe and around the world is an
important step in making it easy for anyone to start using it to pay for
private bandwidth."

Bittrex Global EO Tom Albright said: "With data privacy and security more
important than ever, it's exciting to partner with an innovative VPN provider
in Orchid. Our companies share a mission around security, and we believe the
use of digital currency in this space represents a significant step forward
and a huge opportunity. We're pleased to be making OXT available to our
customers on the Bittrex Global platform."

Orchid is a unique VPN: it is powered by a digital currency, so paying for
bandwidth doesn't require any centralized party. VPN service in the app is
purchased with OXT from the connected account, and you pay only for the
bandwidth that you actually use. New Orchid users can open an account by
creating an Ethereum address using Metamask or another Ethereum wallet, and
purchasing at least $4 in OXT and $1 of ETH from Bittrex or another exchange.
Once the account is created, a QR code appears that contains account
credentials that you can share with as many friends, family, or devices as
you'd like. Anyone can copy or scan that account into the app for a 1-step
setup.

Orchid is available for two trading pairs on Bittrex Global: OXT/USDT and
OXT/BTC. This listing continues Orchid's international expansion, following
our listing on OKEx and five new Orchid app language translations (Mandarin,
Russian, Indonesian, Korean, and Japanese) [announced March 27th](/oxt-now-
live-on-okex/).

To learn more about Bittrex, please visit them [here](https://bittrex.com/).
Download the Orchid app to control your privacy in a new way
[here](https://www.orchid.com/download).

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [Partnerships](/tag/partnerships/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22OXT%20Now%20Live%20on%20Bittrex%20Global%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Foxt-
now-live-on-bittrex-global%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Foxt-
now-live-on-bittrex-global%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Foxt-
now-live-on-bittrex-global%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

[

#### OXT is Listed on Vauld

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

Jan 14, 2022

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

