![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/oxt-is-listed-on-upbit-as-orchid-is-hopping-in-korea/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/oxt-is-listed-on-upbit-as-orchid-is-hopping-in-korea/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/oxt-is-listed-on-upbit-as-orchid-is-hopping-in-korea/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/oxt-is-listed-on-upbit-as-orchid-is-hopping-in-korea/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/oxt-is-listed-on-upbit-as-orchid-is-hopping-in-korea/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/oxt-is-listed-on-upbit-as-orchid-is-hopping-in-korea/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![OXT is listed on Upbit as Orchid is hopping in
Korea](/static/85848b413ea1f6a89924590b4d2029fd/Orchid_BlogImage_Upbit.jpg)

# OXT is listed on Upbit as Orchid is hopping in Korea

Sep 9, 2020  
  

OXT, the Orchid token, is now listed on [Upbit](https://upbit.com/), the
largest digital asset exchange in South Korea, as Orchid expands further
across Asia and the globe. Equipped with world-class technology, regulatory
expertise, and operational know-how, Upbit currently operates exchanges in
South Korea, Singapore, and Indonesia.

New users can open an Orchid account by purchasing at least $4 in OXT and $1
of ETH on Upbit. Once the account is created, a shareable QR code will appear
that contains account credentials. Anyone can copy or scan that account into
the app for a simple, one-step setup.

Orchid's unique VPN marketplace uses a robust system of incentives to match
supply with demand and ensure ample bandwidth is available. People use OXT to
fund their account, and can then purchase VPN service on a pay-as-you-go
basis.

Dr. Steven Waterhouse, Orchid's Co-Founder and CEO said: "We are thrilled with
this new listing, which reflects Orchid's strong global expansion, including
across Asia. Upbit is a leading outlet for cryptocurrencies in Asia,
particularly in the vibrant crypto community in Korea. We're excited that
people can now use Upbit to get OXT and explore the Internet more freely."

Established in 2017 by Dunamu Inc., Upbit has grown to be South Korea's
largest exchange and has expanded across the Asia-Pacific region to include
Singapore and Indonesia. Last month, Upbit announced that Upbit Thailand
received approval for four provisional licenses to operate digital asset-
related businesses in Thailand by the country's Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC).

[Download the Orchid app](https://www.orchid.com/download) to start exploring
the Internet freely.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Partnerships](/tag/partnerships/)
  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22OXT%20is%20listed%20on%20Upbit%20as%20Orchid%20is%20hopping%20in%20Korea%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Foxt-
is-listed-on-upbit-as-orchid-is-hopping-in-korea%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Foxt-
is-listed-on-upbit-as-orchid-is-hopping-in-korea%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Foxt-
is-listed-on-upbit-as-orchid-is-hopping-in-korea%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

[

#### OXT is Listed on Vauld

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

Jan 14, 2022

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

