![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/oxt-is-listed-on-coindcx-as-orchid-hops-into-india/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/oxt-is-listed-on-coindcx-as-orchid-hops-into-india/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/oxt-is-listed-on-coindcx-as-orchid-hops-into-india/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/oxt-is-listed-on-coindcx-as-orchid-hops-into-india/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/oxt-is-listed-on-coindcx-as-orchid-hops-into-india/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/oxt-is-listed-on-coindcx-as-orchid-hops-into-india/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![OXT is listed on CoinDCX as Orchid hops into
India](/static/3eed993e17af8caf3af8789ddc1f2a63/Orchid_BlogImage_CoinDCX.png)

# OXT is listed on CoinDCX as Orchid hops into India

Jun 25, 2020  
  

OXT, the Orchid token, is now listed on [CoinDCX](https://coindcx.com/), a
versatile cryptocurrency exchange with its liquidity, wallet, and security,
making the trading experience fast, reliable, and effortless. The crypto
exchange empowers traders to access to a global liquidity from leading crypto
exchanges including Binance, HitBTC, and Huobi Global, trading with leverage
on a single account.

New users can open an Orchid account by purchasing at least $4 in OXT and $1
of ETH on CoinDCX. Once the account is created, a shareable QR code will
appear that contains account credentials. Anyone can copy or scan that account
into the app for a simple, one-step setup.

Orchid's unique VPN marketplace uses a robust system of incentives to match
supply with demand and ensure ample bandwidth is available. People use OXT to
fund their account, and can then purchase VPN service on a pay-as-you-go
basis.

Established in 2018, CoinDCX is India's largest and safest cryptocurrency
exchange, offering users an integrated suite of products, including DCXinsta,
its fiat to crypto product; DCXtrade, its spot trading product; DCXmargin, its
margin trading product that provides 6x leverage on 200+ coins; as well as
DCXfutures, its futures trading product with up to 15x leverage.

The listing of OXT on CoinDCX follows the successful closing of CoinDCX's [$3
million Series A
funding](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-03-24/bain-fund-bitmex-
owner-among-funders-of-india-crypto-bourse) round, as well as a [$2.5 million
strategic investment](https://www.coindesk.com/indian-crypto-exchange-coindcx-
polychain-capital-coinbase-ventures) round by Polychain Capital and Coinbase
Ventures. Following the lifting of an industry-wide banking ban by the Reserve
Bank of India in February, the crypto exchange has witnessed a more than 10x
growth in sign-ups in 2020.

Dr. Steven Waterhouse, Orchid's Co-Founder and CEO said: "This listing
reflects Orchid's strong global growth. CoinDCX is a major outlet for
cryptocurrencies in Asia, particularly the fast-growing Indian market, and
we're excited that people can now use it to get OXT and surf the Internet in
privacy."

Sumit Gupta, CEO and Co-founder of CoinDCX, said: "Following the lifting of
the RBI banking ban this year, we are witnessing the unprecedented growth of
the Indian cryptocurrency sector. Simultaneously, the broader IT and internet
sector in India is expanding at a phenomenal rate. With experts predicting
that the number of internet users in India will reach [800 million by
2023](https://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/mckinsey/business%20functions/mckinsey%20digital/our%20insights/digital%20india%20technology%20to%20transform%20a%20connected%20nation/digital-
india-technology-to-transform-a-connected-nation-full-report.ashx), we foresee
increasing demand for privacy-preserving services amongst consumers as online
safety becomes a priority. We are proud to list Orchid's OXT token on the
CoinDCX exchange, offering users greater accessibility to internet privacy
solutions and serving as Orchid's gateway to the Indian and Asian markets."  
[Download the Orchid app](https://www.orchid.com/download) to start exploring
the Internet freely.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Partnerships](/tag/partnerships/)
  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22OXT%20is%20listed%20on%20CoinDCX%20as%20Orchid%20hops%20into%20India%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Foxt-
is-listed-on-coindcx-as-orchid-hops-into-india%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Foxt-
is-listed-on-coindcx-as-orchid-hops-into-india%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Foxt-
is-listed-on-coindcx-as-orchid-hops-into-india%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

[

#### OXT is Listed on Vauld

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

Jan 14, 2022

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

