![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/oxt-hops-into-new-york-with-coinbase/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/oxt-hops-into-new-york-with-coinbase/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/oxt-hops-into-new-york-with-coinbase/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/oxt-hops-into-new-york-with-coinbase/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/oxt-hops-into-new-york-with-coinbase/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/oxt-hops-into-new-york-with-coinbase/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![OXT Hops Into New York With
Coinbase](/static/72a624e13731c282ada612da1e8abfaf/Orchid_BlogImage_CBNY.jpg)

# OXT Hops Into New York With Coinbase

Mar 17, 2020  
  

Just after launching our privacy network in December, the digital currency
(OXT) that powers our app was listed on Coinbase, giving millions of privacy-
seekers access to it right away. Now, Coinbase is offering OXT to its New York
users for the first time.

Orchid CEO Dr. Steven Waterhouse (Seven) said: “Privacy is important
everywhere, not just in places where censorship and surveillance are most
prevalent and oppressive. Opening our privacy network to the people of New
York is an important step in solidifying our global community. We look forward
to making the internet open for everyone.”

Orchid is a unique VPN: it is powered by a digital currency, so paying for
bandwidth doesn’t require any centralized party. VPN service in the app is
purchased with OXT from the connected account, and you pay only for the
bandwidth that you actually use. New Orchid users can open an account by
creating an Ethereum address using Metamask or another Ethereum wallet, and
purchasing at least $4 in OXT and $1 of ETH.

Once the account is created, a QR code appears that contains account
credentials that you can share with as many friends, family, or devices as
you’d like. Anyone can copy or scan that account into the app for a 1-step
setup.

[Buy OXT on Coinbase](https://www.coinbase.com/price/orchid) and download the
Orchid app to control your privacy in a new way
[here](https://www.orchid.com/download).

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22OXT%20Hops%20Into%20New%20York%20With%20Coinbase%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Foxt-
hops-into-new-york-with-coinbase%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Foxt-
hops-into-new-york-with-coinbase%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Foxt-
hops-into-new-york-with-coinbase%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

](/orchid-answers-the-communitys-questions-in-binance-espaol-ama/)

[

#### Orchid answers the community’s questions in Binance Español AMA

](/orchid-answers-the-communitys-questions-in-binance-espaol-ama/)

Feb 23, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

