![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/oxt-expands-reach-with-new-exchange-listing-bkex/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/oxt-expands-reach-with-new-exchange-listing-bkex/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/oxt-expands-reach-with-new-exchange-listing-bkex/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/oxt-expands-reach-with-new-exchange-listing-bkex/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/oxt-expands-reach-with-new-exchange-listing-bkex/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/oxt-expands-reach-with-new-exchange-listing-bkex/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![OXT Expands Reach With New Exchange Listing:
Bkex](/static/d38b41aa1f46dfb87e2be12eda1a0ef3/Orchid_BlogImage_BKEX.jpg)

# OXT Expands Reach With New Exchange Listing: Bkex

Aug 27, 2020  
  

OXT, the Orchid token, will be listed on [Bkex](https://www.bkex.com/), a
digital currency exchange with a large Mandarin-speaking user base. Deposits
are open, and trading begins August 28 at 18:30 (UTC+8). Bkex provides
services to over 1.8 million users in 208 countries around the world.

"We're excited to have OXT listed on Bkex, which is one of the leading
exchanges in the Chinese-speaking community," said Dr. Steven Waterhouse,
Orchid's Co-Founder and CEO. "This listing can help spread the opportunity to
explore the Internet in privacy to more people in more parts of the world."

New users can open an Orchid account by purchasing at least $4 in OXT and $1
of ETH on Bkex. Once the account is created, a shareable QR code will appear
that contains account credentials. Anyone can copy or scan that account into
the app for a simple, one-step setup.

Orchid's unique VPN marketplace uses a robust system of incentives to match
supply with demand and ensure ample bandwidth is available. People use OXT to
fund their account, and can then purchase VPN service on a pay-as-you-go
basis. Users of the iOS and MacOS apps can also purchase pre-filled accounts
using [in-app purchases](/orchid-launches-in-apple-app-store/).

Lion Ji, CEO of Bkex, said, "Today's Internet users expect a safe, encrypted
experience online, but for a variety of reasons, that is not the case. The
creation of Orchid is making up for the deficiencies in the current online
environment."

[Download the Orchid app](https://www.orchid.com/download) to start exploring
the Internet freely.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Partnerships](/tag/partnerships/)
  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22OXT%20Expands%20Reach%20With%20New%20Exchange%20Listing%3A%20Bkex%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Foxt-
expands-reach-with-new-exchange-listing-bkex%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Foxt-
expands-reach-with-new-exchange-listing-bkex%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Foxt-
expands-reach-with-new-exchange-listing-bkex%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

#### Earn Orchid’s OXT on Binance

](/earn-orchids-oxt-on-binance/)

Feb 9, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

[

#### OXT is Listed on Vauld

](/oxt-is-listed-on-vauld/)

Jan 14, 2022

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

[

#### Orchid learns three new languages

](/orchid-learns-three-new-languages/)

Feb 11, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

