#  [ Unenumerated ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/)

An unending variety of topics

## Monday, July 23, 2012

###  Pascal's scams (ii)

Besides the robot apocalypse, there are many other, and often more important,
examples of [Pascal scams.](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/pascals-
scams.html)  The following may be or may have been such poorly evidenced but
widely feared or hoped-for extreme consequences (these days the fears seem to
predominate):  

  1. That we are currently headed for another financial industry disaster even worse than 2008 (overwrought expectations often take the form of "much like the surprise we most recently experienced, only even more extreme").
  

  2. That global warming has caused or will cause disaster X (droughts, floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, ...)
  

  3. A whole witch's brew of "much like what just happened" fears were the many terrorist disaster fears that sprouted like the plague in the years after 9/11: suitcase nukes, the "ticking-time bomb" excuse for legalizing torture, envelopes filled with mysterious white powders, and on and on.  

  

  4. On the positive daydream side, Eric Drexler's "molecular nanotechnology" predictions of the 1980s: self-replicating robots, assemblers that could make almost anything, etc. -- a whole new industrial revolution that would make everything cheap. (Instead, it was outsourcing and a high-tech version of t-shirt printing that made many things cheap, and "nanotechnology" became just a cool buzzword to use when talking about chemistry).
  

  5. A big hope of some naive young engineers during the previous high oil price era of the late 1970s: solar power satellites made from lunar materials, with O'Neill space colonies to house the workers. Indeed, a whole slew of astronaut voyages and industries in space were supposed to follow after the spectacular (and spectacularly expensive) Apollo moon landings -- a "much like recently experienced, only more so" daydream.
  

  6. The "Internet commerce will replace bricks-and-mortar and make all the money those companies were making" ideas that drove the Internet bubble in the late 1990s. Indeed, most or all of the bubbles and depressions in financial markets may be caused by optimistic and pessimistic Pascal fads respectively.
  

History is replete with many, many more such manias and scares, whether among
small groups of otherwise smart people, or among the vast majority of a
society.  Sometimes poorly evidenced consequences do happen to occur, just in
way(s) very different from expected -- for example Columbus, following the
advice of well respected authorities like [Strabo and
Toscanelli](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/exploration-
explosion.html) and heading west for India \-- ending up instead in America.
And sometimes a [lucky
penny](http://articles.latimes.com/1988-07-25/local/me-4586_1_lucky-penny)
prophecy of a wonderful or terrible but very unlikely event comes true --
although hardly any of us ever seem to learn about these sage predictions
until after the event. Then they only make us believe enough in prophecy that
we fall for the next scam.

Posted by  [ Nick Szabo ](https://www.blogger.com/profile/16820399856274245684
"author profile") at  [2:26
AM](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/pascals-scams-ii.html "permanent
link") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon18_email.gif)
](https://www.blogger.com/email-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1384112437084995240 "Email Post") [
![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon18_edit_allbkg.gif)
](https://www.blogger.com/post-
edit.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1384112437084995240&from=pencil "Edit Post")

[Email This](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1384112437084995240&target=email "Email
This")[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1384112437084995240&target=blog
"BlogThis!")[Share to Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1384112437084995240&target=twitter "Share to
Twitter")[Share to Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1384112437084995240&target=facebook "Share to
Facebook")[Share to Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1384112437084995240&target=pinterest "Share to
Pinterest")

#### 11 comments:

[![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)
![](//3.bp.blogspot.com/-lHnuJx6W5Kg/Tkc6QD7hAeI/AAAAAAAAAEI/fuodDvO7iig/s35/logo-
whitebg.png)](https://www.blogger.com/profile/18349479103216755952)

[gwern](https://www.blogger.com/profile/18349479103216755952) said...

    

#1: seriously? The worst American depression since the Great Depression, even
after TARP and AIG bailouts and all of that, and the possibility of an even
worse crack up at some point is not just low probability (which I would
certainly agree with - most of America's history was not spent wallowing in
the Great Depression, after all), but *so* low that fearing is falling prey to
a Pascal's *scam*?  
  
#2: I'm not sure what you mean here. That it's statistical innumeracy to trace
any particular natural disaster back to a slow global trend like global
warming, or is this a denial that global warming can have any effect on the
frequency or magnitude of natural disasters?  
  
#6: Yes, because offline retailers haven't been slowly crushed under the
Internet as dot-com darlings like Amazon continue to go from strength to
strength? I'll think about how this was a 'Pascal's scam' the next time I pass
an empty Borders.  
  
\---  
  
The only common trait these entries seem to have is 'Nick Szabo thinks they
are stupid'.

     [ 9:24 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/pascals-scams-ii.html?showComment=1343060698507#c7433460030834380885 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=7433460030834380885 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

nick said...

    

Methinks more careful reading may be in order. These _may be_ Pascal scams: I
am asking whether they are or not. I am asking whether there actually is or
was good evidence for them beyond arguments from authority, which tend to be
the most common arguments used to convince people that Pascal scams are true.
(e.g. "Hanson and Yudkowsky say there's an X% probability").  
  
#1. Yes, seriously. Thinking the last suprise is going to repeat itself is a
common fallacy. I am asking whether any of the authorities who predict this
actually have good evidence of it, evidence substantially stronger than that
of the rebuttal arguments. I'm asking whether slumping prices in some markets
are based on better evidence than mere pessimsim and fears stemming from the
last surprise.  
  
#2. Again, I am asking whether the authorities who predict such things
actually have good evidence for it.  
  
#6 There is no corresponding set of Internet companies that have made all or
even most of the bookstore's revenue from taking the business that the
bookstores have lost largely to free content on this Internet. Again it helps
to actually read what I said.  
  
What these have in common are beliefs about extreme conseqences _for wich I
have not heard_ any good underlying evidence, only arguments from authority
and the implied suggestion (sometimes even stated outright) that I should care
because the consequences would be so wonderful or so dire. I could of course
be wrong if in fact if the underlying evidence is substantially stronger than
the rebuttal evidence. But the general history of predictions of extreme
consequences, outside the hard sciences, is that they usually gather the
support of both authorities and those who believe authorities without in fact
having good underlying evidence. And the big events that actually occur are
generally the ones that the well-known authorities and their followsers were
not predicting -- only the lucky penny prophet who you never hear of until
after the event.

     [ 11:58 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/pascals-scams-ii.html?showComment=1343069880758#c829930174363995956 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=829930174363995956 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/03329960438673340983)

[Dmytry](https://www.blogger.com/profile/03329960438673340983) said...

    

The global warming issue is more of a battle where much anything goes.  
  
For extreme example, suppose that we could suddenly raise fine structure
constant by somewhere between 0.1% and 1% . Clearly that's most likely a very
bad idea and the notion of continued survival after such a change is a
privileged hypothesis. But if I am to try to explain this to a layman, I will
have to provide examples of what may happen: such and such reactions may get
faster and Earth would blow up etc etc.  
  
The global warming is similar - you can expect negative consequences for
pretty solid reasons. The problem is that it is a public policy issue and if
the public sees two people one giving exact prediction (nothing is going to
change) while other says, well, we can't be specific but blah blah blah, the
latter is very unfairly discounted for some reason.

     [ 1:53 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/pascals-scams-ii.html?showComment=1343119993153#c1894990944478711863 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1894990944478711863 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

nick said...

    

Dmytry, I'm not sure I can agree that the above listed alleged negative
consquences of global warming (floods, droughts, hurricanes, and tornadoes)
are being "very unfairly" dicounted, or that they are being discounted for the
reason you cite. The public needs far more to go on than arguments from
authority, because (as much of the list above suggests, and many more examples
I could give besides) authorities are usually wrong about extreme
consequences. The more extreme the alleged consequences, the more likely that
authorities will exagerate them, due to the biases I discussed in the first
part of "Pascal's scams". To which I'd add another bias -- greater alleged
consequences gain more attention and are thus selectively chosen for media
coverage, and thereby also gain funding for the authorities who claim to
combat such threats. So media and other authorities have strong incentives to
bend reality to motivate their own funding.  
  
And in the case of the most extreme alleged consequences, which often
privilege one extreme possibility over a very large space of more benign or
even opposite utility possibilities, this bending can twist the truth beyond
all semblance to what is actually probable, and such forgery or delusion
cannot be readily detected and is often readily beleived. Giving the rest of
us who recognize this phenomenon all the more reason to discount "the sky is
falling!" predictions.  
  
So the sad reality is that outside the hard sciences, which give rise to very
high accuracy and indendently repeatable experiments that bear quite directly
on the causal mechanism in question, and with some other exceptions that
aren't relevant to global warming, authorities aren't a good source of truth
about extreme consequences.  
  
So the public has a right to put alleged "negative consequences for pretty
solid reasons", which don't seem to us layfolk very solid at all, unless we
blindly trust authority on such matters, through the Pascal scam wringer:  
  
(1) How good is the evidence for each chain the the causal connection from CO2
to the alleged set of future fires, tornadoes, floods, and/or hurricanes?  
  
(2) Are _all_ the significantly possible consequences being properly taken
into account, or are only certain extreme consequences being dwelt on to the
negligence of other major consequences of opposite utility?  
  
(3) If the evidence is not so solid, what experiments can we do to make it
solid, before we are forced to spend billions (or in the case of global
warming, trillions!) on alleged solutions to the alleged problem? In other
words, is the "other person" in your scenario giving a _proximitely testable_
prediction -- i.e. a prediction where the prediction of more distant severe
harm can be soundly falsified or verified, by sound empirical observation and
sound induction to a simple set of general rules, before the expenditures to
prevent or mitigate those alleged distant harms need to be undertaken?  
  
You can convince me if you can successfully put such a theory through the
Pascal scam wringer, and I suspect it would help you convince much of the rest
of the public as well.

     [ 3:16 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/pascals-scams-ii.html?showComment=1343168165857#c6004782370065737613 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=6004782370065737613 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/03329960438673340983)

[Dmytry](https://www.blogger.com/profile/03329960438673340983) said...

    

It is not going to be possible for layperson to run any sort of simulation of
the effects of the warming. Furthermore, there has been quite significant
media bias against the warming in the country most contributing to the
warming, where I guess you live.  
  
On the chain to the extreme consequences, go back to trying to guess effects
of modification of fine structure constant, as a rather extreme example where
your line of reasoning fails too. It is reasonable to say that changing the
fine structure constant will probably blow up the Earth or the Sun, but no
exact simulation of whats actually going to happen has been done, the set of
consequences evaluated has been small, and so on.  
  
You got yourself a fully general counter argument to anything uncomfortably
big - not just to charlatan/crackpot Yudkowsky, but also to any prediction of
any global consequences that you can realistically expect to have to spend
some money on, even on a scale as obvious as 'lets raise fine structure
constant'.

     [ 1:04 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/pascals-scams-ii.html?showComment=1343376288669#c7965326916517332803 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=7965326916517332803 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

nick said...

    

_You got yourself a fully general counter argument to anything uncomfortably
big_  
  
No. The asteroid threat as I discussed is probably _not_ a Pascal scam --
because the probability is well-defined by very accurate and simple laws and
measurable deviations from same. Whence accurate expected value calcuations
for such threats, and we can do fairly straightforward observations to improve
their accuracy. Similarly, lotteries with well-defined odds and payouts are
not Pascal scams. These are two examples that have satisfied the burden of
presenting the evidence for the odds and consequences they allege. They have
successfully rebutted the presumption against alleged extreme consequences.  
  
The fine structure constant may well also fall into this good-evidence
category, if we can e.g. accurately trace the consequences of randomly
changing the constant to e.g. inability to form complex molecules via simple
laws that have been very well verified empirically. (Of course, there's no
good evidence that one can actually change the fine structure constant, so
it's just an academic hypothetical, but I'm willing to consider it as an if-
you-could-then-what thought experiment).  
  
Unfortunately, these neat and simple examples aren't typical. Most or perhaps
even the vast majority of alleged extreme consequences that many people
consider important are based on a far poorer quality of evidence.  
  
Indeed, my argument is far more about quality of evidence than it is about
extreme consequences or long odds. It's just that long odds usually (but not
always) tend to reflect poor evidence, and allegations of extreme consequences
tend to focus people's attention on fears or hopes of such consequences and
thereby bias them against demanding evidence or exploring evidence for other
consequences. The result being that expected value calculations (including the
ones our brains tend to do implicitly to judge the importance of an issue)
usually work very poorly in these situations. We should therefore put a strong
burden of presenting accurate (not merely precise) evidence on people alleging
extreme consequences. Our rebuttable presumption should be that any
particularly alleged extreme consequences won't occur.  
  
 _...there has been quite significant media bias against the warming in the
country most contributing to the warming_  
  
Quite the contrary, media in almost any country generally has strong
incentives to gain attention. To gain attention, they often talk
authoritatively about extreme consequences while presenting little or no
evidence, except for arguments from authority. We are supposed to believe it
based on their authority. I am calling bullshit.

     [ 4:39 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/pascals-scams-ii.html?showComment=1343432354224#c9075793548152034603 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=9075793548152034603 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/03329960438673340983)

[Dmytry](https://www.blogger.com/profile/03329960438673340983) said...

    

See, the issue is that the warming is complicated. One thing for sure, we are
quite significantly changing a parameter of a system that we have adapted to,
leading up to multitude of very hard to trace consequences (the only thing we
can say is that weather patterns will change).  
  
One should reasonably expect lower degree of adaptation to the new state, in
so much as we did adapt to the previous state, given that the change is by no
means tiny when it comes to influencing the weather.  
  
I do agree that blaming specific hurricanes on global warming is rather silly.
But at the same time, the loss of glaciers is certain, the increase in sea
level is certain, and the more severe weather in some regions that previously
did not get severe weather, is quite likely, as the patterns of where severe
weather happens and where it does not, will change. Given our adaptation to
existing pattern, such changes are negative.  
  
What you demand is a very specific type of estimation of the effects. The one
that can not be readily computed for the warming. In the extreme, it is as if
you demanded a weather forecast form June 10, 2050 , to show the warming, or
two forecasts and the difference .

     [ 9:44 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/pascals-scams-ii.html?showComment=1343537074770#c2445854931923333862 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=2445854931923333862 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/03329960438673340983)

[Dmytry](https://www.blogger.com/profile/03329960438673340983) said...

    

Also, there's nothing wrong with argument from authority when the authority is
scientific consensus and you can't readily out-expert it. The argument from
fake authority, and especially the arguments based on good sounding but
fallacious syllogisms, built upon faux-'general' framework, that's what's bad.  
  
That being said, I do concede that within the climate science you can find
same cranks and unscrupulous money seekers as in the futurology, and these
folks make the most extraordinary of claims, both on the exaggeration side,
and on the 'greenhouse effect is false' side, which are then repeated by the
media in the tailored-to-customer ways (to liberals and conservatives
respectively).

     [ 10:09 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/pascals-scams-ii.html?showComment=1343538572476#c1410028252016982949 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1410028252016982949 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

nick said...

    

_One should reasonably expect lower degree of adaptation to the new state_  
  
This is a rather generic and abstract argument. If you want to make it in this
area you should make it for other kinds of changes to complex systems as well.
In particular you should make it for many of the social changes we're going or
have gone through, many of which have a greater impact on human life than
redistribution of the weather patterns, and where technology is less useful
for adaptation. (What technologies mitigate high divorce rates, high rates of
children raised without fathers, and so on? Much easier to adapt to changing
rain patterns by e.g. irrigation or changing what crops grow where).  
  
Since I tend to agree with arguments about the costs of adapting to change,
[I've come out in support](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/08/pollution-
reduction-with-cap-trade.html) of developing institutions like cap & trade
that we could use in the future to slow and eventually reduce CO2 emissions.
Being new institutions, they need a long process of trial and error before
they will be ready to start gently nudging our economies towards less CO2
output.  
  
However, looking on it as an economic problem, the bulk of the solution will
probably have to be adaptation, not draconian economic changes. Just looking
at the impact on agriculture, for example, a draconian cut in fossil fuel use
would be far more devastating to world food supplies than the need to adapt to
some redistributed weather patterns via crop changes, irrigation, etc. Keep in
mind that besides exporting CO2, great fuel consuming countries like the U.S.
and Canada also export food.

     [ 4:55 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/pascals-scams-ii.html?showComment=1343606148618#c1601961371486417831 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1601961371486417831 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

nick said...

    

I also observe that global warming alarmists typically neglect a very solidly
evidenced positive benefit of CO2: that greater CO2 concentrations increase
plant growth. That's a great benefit to agriculture, forestry, and other
necessities and enjoyments we get from plant life. It is alas typical of a
Pascal scam to ignore consequences of the opposite utility.  
  
_Also, there 's nothing wrong with argument from authority when the authority
is scientific consensus _  
  
Here we greatly differ. There are some hard sciences, mainly well-verified
parts of physics and chemistry, and some of biology, where authority can be
respected in this manner. There are others of greater complexity and less
predictive power where it should not (e.g. nutritionists who have often made
poorly evidenced consensus recommendations where much later the consensus
changes)  
  
In a study as complex and with so little track record of successful prediction
as climatology, I'm afraid much of it is closer to the speculations of
nutritionists than to, for example, the hard science of DNA sequencing. DNA
being a fairly simple structure (interpreting what complex system or
behavior(s) the DNA codes for is often quite another matter...)  
  
What is at work here is related to what Richard Feynman called "cargo cult
science": basking in the authoritative glow of the successful simple hard
sciences like physics, and inappropriate conceding of such authority by many
in the public. Most of reality is too complex for science to be nearly as
successful as they have been at tackling physics. The respect and authority we
grant to scientists studying simple (low Kolmogorov complexity) phenomena
should not be extended to scientists studying more complex areas and having
poor track records of successful prediction.

     [ 5:28 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/pascals-scams-ii.html?showComment=1343608105964#c5958755384348470414 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=5958755384348470414 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/03329960438673340983)

[Dmytry](https://www.blogger.com/profile/03329960438673340983) said...

    

Well, it would seem that as such increase in plant yield is unlikely to result
in significant advantage to us.  
  
With regards to change in the patterns, we got poor people on equator, for one
thing - while it may well be the case that it would be more beneficial to keep
burning coal and somehow compensate those people, I am not expecting this to
happen.  
  
Furthermore, economics is massively inefficient, and planning too short
sighted; taxing the emissions right now has the positive externalities of
supporting development of more sustainable energy technologies earlier - and
especially when it comes to oil, infrastructure preparedness for the
decreasing availability (i.e. public transportation, smaller cars, etc); it
may be better than obtaining same money via different types of taxation.

     [ 4:03 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/pascals-scams-ii.html?showComment=1343646209252#c1487667224761077302 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1487667224761077302 "Delete Comment")

[Post a
Comment](https://www.blogger.com/comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1384112437084995240)

[Newer Post](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/three-philosophical-
essays.html "Newer Post") [Older
Post](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/pascals-scams.html "Older
Post") [Home](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/)

Subscribe to: [Post Comments
(Atom)](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/feeds/1384112437084995240/comments/default)

## Pages

  * [Home](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/)

## About Me

[ Nick Szabo ](https://www.blogger.com/profile/16820399856274245684)

    "A premier thinker about history, law and economics, and the lessons they have for security." -- Adam Shostack, [Emergent Chaos ](http://www.emergentchaos.com/archives/2005/12/nick_szabo_blog.html)   
  
"Szabo comes out with these essays that leave me in awe." -- [Brian
Dunbar](http://space4commerce.blogspot.com/2011/06/tab-clearing_14.html)  
  
"Reading material that is eclectic, challenging and endlessly fascinating."
\-- Sean McGrath,
[Propylon](http://seanmcgrath.blogspot.com/2004_05_09_seanmcgrath_archive.html)  
  
"Like most blogs worth my attention, this blog is updated only infrequently.
That is because the authors of blogs worth my attention only post when they
have something to say that is true, relevant and not already known by their
audience. Most of the human race does not have the skill to know when an idea
has these three properties. The skill is particularly rare in the fields of
politics and economics, which is why this blog is such a rare and valuable
thing." \-- [Richard Hollerith](http://dl4.jottit.com/)  
  

[View my complete
profile](https://www.blogger.com/profile/16820399856274245684)

## Blog Archive

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2018 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2018/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2018/03/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2017 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/03/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/02/) (2)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2016 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/03/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/02/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2015 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/10/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2014 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/10/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/07/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2013 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/11/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/08/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/07/) (1)

  * [ ▼ ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2012 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/) (8)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/10/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/08/) (2)
    * [ ▼ ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/) (4)
      * [Three philosophical essays](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/three-philosophical-essays.html)
      * [Pascal's scams (ii)](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/pascals-scams-ii.html)
      * [Pascal's scams](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/pascals-scams.html)
      * [More short takes](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/more-short-takes.html)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2011 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/) (12)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/06/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/05/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/02/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/01/) (4)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2010 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/) (9)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/10/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/09/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/02/) (2)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2009 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/) (29)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/11/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/10/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/09/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/08/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/06/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/05/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/04/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/01/) (3)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2008 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/) (55)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/12/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/10/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/09/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/08/) (9)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/07/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/06/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/05/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/04/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/03/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/02/) (5)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/01/) (3)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2007 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/) (47)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/10/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/09/) (8)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/08/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/07/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/06/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/05/) (8)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/04/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/03/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/02/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/01/) (3)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2006 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/) (130)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/12/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/11/) (7)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/10/) (15)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/09/) (15)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/08/) (20)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/07/) (5)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/06/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/05/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/04/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/03/) (11)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/02/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/01/) (26)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2005 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/) (44)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/12/) (16)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/11/) (5)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/10/) (23)

|  
  
---|---  
  
Simple theme. Powered by [Blogger](https://www.blogger.com).

  *[2:26 AM]: 2012-07-23T02:26:00-07:00

