[![esprezzo-logo@2x](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-fs/hubfs/esprezzo-
logo@2x.png?width=261&name=esprezzo-logo@2x.png)](https://esprezzo.io)

  * [Products](https://esprezzo.io/products)
  * [Developers](https://esprezzo.io/developers)
  * [About](https://esprezzo.io/about)
  * [Blog](https://blog.esprezzo.io)
  * [GET AN INVITE](https://esprezzo.io/invite)

##  [The Esprezzo Blog](https://blog.esprezzo.io)

# Perkle officially integrated with MyEtherWallet (MEW) — new guide

by [Jialin Luh](https://blog.esprezzo.io/author/jialin-luh) on July 28, 2020

  * [Tweet](https://twitter.com/share)
  *   * 

![MyEtherWallet-MEW-Perkle-PRKL-
integrated_Jul2020](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-fs/hubfs/MyEtherWallet-MEW-
Perkle-PRKL-integrated_Jul2020.jpg?width=600&name=MyEtherWallet-MEW-Perkle-
PRKL-integrated_Jul2020.jpg)

We're excited to announce that [Perkle (PRKL)](/what-is-perkle-prkl) was added
to the list of networks officially supported by MyEtherWallet (MEW) a few
weeks ago! MEW has been rolling out updates and integrations, and now that you
can access the Perkle network easily from MEW web, here's a new guide on using
PRKL with MEW.

**Here's what you will need to get started:**

  * [MEWconnect](https://mewconnect.myetherwallet.com/#/) mobile app installed on your iPhone or Android smartphone, if you plan to use the MEW web interface to send PRKL to another address
  * An [ETH wallet](https://kb.myetherwallet.com/en/getting-started/how-to-create-a-wallet/) already set up and accessible via MEW web and MEW wallet or MEWconnect
  * A laptop or desktop computer

For this guide, I am using the [Brave browser](https://brave.com/) and the iOS
app.

This guide assumes you already have a wallet set up. If you haven't created
one yet, you will need to [create a new
wallet](https://www.myetherwallet.com/create-wallet) before proceeding
further.

While MEW recommends using the MEW wallet mobile app to set up your new
address, if you're using MEW to manage PRKL or any non-ERC20 token, you'll
want to use the **MEWconnect** mobile app instead. We confirmed with the MEW
team that as of now, "the MEW wallet app only runs the Main ETH Network and
accepts only ETH and ERC20 tokens." They've assured us that there aren't any
plans to discontinue MEWconnect in the foreseeable future and also confirmed
they have no immediate plans to update the MEW wallet mobile app to work with
non ETH/ERC20 tokens.



## Connecting to the Perkle Blockchain

To begin, go to the [MyEtherWallet website](https://www.myetherwallet.com/)
from your laptop or desktop computer. As a reminder, it's a best practice to
inspect the URL in your browser and ensure you see the padlock next to the
URL, ensuring you're not on a phishing site:

![myetherwallet-url](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-fs/hubfs/myetherwallet-
url.jpg?width=552&name=myetherwallet-url.jpg)

If you're new to blockchain technology or are not familiar with MEW, we highly
recommend reading [MyEtherWallet's
introduction](https://kb.myetherwallet.com/en/getting-started/myetherwallet-
an-introduction/) to understand what you can do with MEW, how your funds are
stored and how to keep your wallet secure.

Step 1. From MEW's homepage, click "Access My Wallet":

![Screen shot of MyEtherWallet MEW homepage
July2020](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-fs/hubfs/MyEtherWallet-MEW-homepage-
July2020.jpg?width=2400&name=MyEtherWallet-MEW-homepage-July2020.jpg)

Step 2. On the "Access My Wallet" screen, click on "MEWconnect":

![MyEtherWallet-MEW_Access-my-wallet_July2020](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-
fs/hubfs/MyEtherWallet-MEW_Access-my-
wallet_July2020.jpg?width=2400&name=MyEtherWallet-MEW_Access-my-
wallet_July2020.jpg)

Which brings up this screen:

![MyEtherWallet-MEW-Access-by-MEW-
wallet_July2020](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-fs/hubfs/MyEtherWallet-MEW-
Access-by-MEW-wallet_July2020.jpg?width=2400&name=MyEtherWallet-MEW-Access-by-
MEW-wallet_July2020.jpg)

Step 3. Open the MEW connect app on your smartphone and enter your password,
which takes you to this screen:

![MEWconnect-app](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-fs/hubfs/MEWconnect-
app.jpg?width=254&name=MEWconnect-app.jpg)

Step 4. From here, press the  **SCAN TO CONNECT** button at the bottom of the
screen and use your phone camera to scan the QR code displayed on MEW on your
laptop or desktop (that's the screen with the QR code referenced in **Step 2**
). This is what you should see in your mobile app:

![MEWconnect_Local-MEW-connection-screens-2](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-
fs/hubfs/MEWconnect_Local-MEW-connection-
screens-2.jpg?width=2400&name=MEWconnect_Local-MEW-connection-screens-2.jpg)

You are now connected to MEW web, and you should see the MEW page in your
browser change to your wallet dashboard:

![MyEtherWallet-MEW-web_Dashboard_July2020-1](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-
fs/hubfs/MyEtherWallet-MEW-
web_Dashboard_July2020-1.jpg?width=2400&name=MyEtherWallet-MEW-
web_Dashboard_July2020-1.jpg)

> Your address is in the upper left corner and is where you'll receive PRKL,
> ETH, or other ERC-20 tokens.

From here, you'll be doing the rest from the MyEtherWallet website (MEW web)
in the browser on your laptop or desktop computer.

Step 5. Connect to the Perkle network by clicking the " **change** " button in
the Network box in the upper right corner:

![MyEtherWallet-MEW-web_Dashboard_Network-
box_July2020](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-fs/hubfs/MyEtherWallet-MEW-
web_Dashboard_Network-box_July2020.jpg?width=513&name=MyEtherWallet-MEW-
web_Dashboard_Network-box_July2020.jpg)

Which will bring up this modal:

![MyEtherWallet-MEW-web_Dashboard_Change-
Network_Modal-1_July2020](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-fs/hubfs/MyEtherWallet-
MEW-web_Dashboard_Change-
Network_Modal-1_July2020.jpg?width=2400&name=MyEtherWallet-MEW-
web_Dashboard_Change-Network_Modal-1_July2020.jpg)

Scroll down until you see PRKL:

![MyEtherWallet-MEW-web_Dashboard-Perkle-PRKL
network_July2020](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-fs/hubfs/MyEtherWallet-MEW-
web_Dashboard-Perkle-PRKL%20network_July2020.jpg?width=513&name=MyEtherWallet-
MEW-web_Dashboard-Perkle-PRKL%20network_July2020.jpg)

Once you click on **esprezzo.io** (right underneath PRKL), you should see the
Network change to Perkle. It may take a moment for the block height to update:

![MyEtherWallet-MEW-web_Perkle-PRKL_July2020](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-
fs/hubfs/MyEtherWallet-MEW-web_Perkle-
PRKL_July2020.jpg?width=2400&name=MyEtherWallet-MEW-web_Perkle-
PRKL_July2020.jpg)

You're now connected to Perkle! If you want to, you can double check the block
height on [the block explorer](https://explorer.esprezzo.io/) and see if it
matches what you see in MEW.



## How to Check PRKL Balance

From the dashboard, as you may have guessed, you will be able to see your
Balance in the middle box:

![MyEtherWallet-MEW-web_PRKL-balance-July2020](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-
fs/hubfs/MyEtherWallet-MEW-web_PRKL-balance-
July2020.jpg?width=2400&name=MyEtherWallet-MEW-web_PRKL-balance-July2020.jpg)

Unfortunately, as I'm writing this blog post, there is no way to view your
PRKL balance from the MEW wallet mobile app; the only way to view your PRKL
balance is from MEW web. I hope this changes in the future!



## How to Send PRKL

At the time of writing, the only way to send PRKL to another address using MEW
is with the **[MEWconnect](https://mewconnect.myetherwallet.com/#/) mobile
app**. The MEW wallet mobile app being promoted by MEW only allows you to
interact with ETH and ERC20 tokens, not tokens on other networks supported by
MEW.

Check out our [guide on sending PRKL using MEWconnect](/how-to-use-perkle-
prkl-with-myetherwallet-mew-oct19-update#how-to-send-prkl-mewconnect). Using
MEW web and MEWconnect, I sent PRKL to the new XPZ minting contract
(0x824B98BdbD2AFB7D5f5AcFeAF68e5e99e5A8aFa5).

**Note** : As of publishing time, MEWconnect still does not display the
balance of PRKL or other custom tokens; it only displays ETH and officially
supported tokens.



## Wrapping up

Here are some helpful links if you'd like to explore our other PRKL wallets:

  * [Command line wallet](https://github.com/esprezzo/perkle/releases/tag/v0.1.0)
  * [Perkle wallet for Discord via PerkleBot](/esprezzo-libraries-perklebot-blockchain-discord-bot-smart-contract-perkle-tokens)

We'll be publishing an updated on [XPZ](/xpz-a-cross-chain-asset), which will
include instructions on adding XPZ as a custom token to your MEW interface so
you can view your XPZ balance from MEW web.

Don't want to check MEW constantly?  
  
Want to receive automatic notifications when your balance (or the balance of
whale you're monitoring) changes?  
  
Check out [**Dispatch**](/introducing-dispatch) — a tool we're working on that
makes it super easy and fast to set up notifications and automations based on
blockchain, DeFi and smart contract data and activity.

We hope you find this guide useful! If you have any questions or need further
assistance, please [ **join our Discord server**](https://discord.gg/uuCT89F)
and hit us up in the  **#support  **channel!

Topics: [News](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/news),
[Perkle](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/perkle)

![Jialin Luh](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hubfs/Jialin.png)

###### [Jialin Luh](https://blog.esprezzo.io/author/jialin-luh)

Jialin is a UX designer at Esprezzo, where she's bringing her passion for user
experience to blockchain tools. She's launched popular B2B and B2C products at
companies including Evernote and Speck Products.

[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jialin/)

## Esprezzo and blockchain-related news for developers and business leaders

Best practices and industry news for growing your business with decentralized
and blockchain-integrated applications

### Subscribe Here!

### Recent Posts

### Posts by Tags

  * [News (14)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/news)
  * [Events (12)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/events)
  * [Product Updates (10)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/product-updates)
  * [Perkle (9)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/perkle)
  * [Research & Analysis (7)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/research-analysis)
  * [Education (6)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/education)
  * [Partnerships (5)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/partnerships)
  * [Blockchain 101 (4)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/blockchain-101)
  * [Press Release (1)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/press-release)

See all

### Technology

[Perkle Protocol](https://esprezzo.io/perkle)

[GitHub](https://github.com/esprezzo)

### Company

[About](https://esprezzo.io/about)

[Blog](https://blog.esprezzo.io)

[Contact](https://esprezzo.io/about#contact)

### Connect

[Discord](https://discord.gg/uuCT89F)

[Twitter](https://twitter.com/esprezzoapp)

[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/esprezzo-app/)

**Stay in the know**

Get news and product updates from Esprezzo

[![esprezzo_logo_red-white_sept2020@2x](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-
fs/hubfs/esprezzo_logo_red-
white_sept2020@2x.png?width=263&name=esprezzo_logo_red-
white_sept2020@2x.png)](https://esprezzo.io)

©2020 Esprezzo. All rights reserved.

