[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/d4d8921370f&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Dapper
Labs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*4qrJW34TWRKo2UlCo9IqbQ.png)](https://medium.com/dapperlabs?source=post_page
-----d4d8921370f--------------------------------)

Published in

[Dapper Labs

](https://medium.com/dapperlabs?source=post_page-----
d4d8921370f--------------------------------)

[![Dapper
Labs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*4qrJW34TWRKo2UlCo9IqbQ.png)](/@hellodapper?source=post_page
-----d4d8921370f--------------------------------)

[Dapper Labs](/@hellodapper?source=post_page-----
d4d8921370f--------------------------------)

Follow

Oct 10, 2019

·

6 min read

# Play Cheeze Wizards with your friends and win extra ETH by forming Cheeze
Parties

## Cheeze Parties are the best way for you and your friends to share in the
fun, should one of you be skillful enough to win the Big Cheeze.

 **Update:** Parties are live on
[**cheezewizards.com/parties/explore**](https://www.cheezewizards.com/parties/explore)

Wizards can only join Parties until Ethereum hits block #8787884, which should
be about ~Nov2. After that, the only way to join a Cheeze Party will be to buy
a Wizard that is already a member.

# The Wizard becomes the membership key

# Now that’s NFTy! 🧙‍♂️

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*tlAhs9MCH1LDogGGYr_3pg.png)

You’ve been asking since the day Cheeze Wizards was announced: “Will my
Wizards be able to join parties?”

Gouda news: We heard you, and we agree. We think (cheeze) parties are the
easiest way for people to band together strategies, share resources, and shred
the competition.

So, we designed a party system — but we didn’t stop there. We also thought
that there should be a sweet Party Prize. “A prize?!” you gasp. Indeed! Find
the answer to that and more of your questions below.

# Why are parties important?

Parties in Cheeze Wizards enable players to support one another during the
Tournament phase. By joining parties or creating new ones, you can increase
your overall chances of winning the Big Cheeze.

The alternative is dueling alone, perhaps while sadly listening to Bonnie
Tyler’s “Total Eclipse of the Heart.”

# What are parties?

  * Parties masquerade as clans, guilds, or teams in other games
  * Parties allow you to form alliances and teams with your friends
  * Parties increase your chances of winning an additional prize if someone in your party wins the Big Cheeze

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*brWETiUO6ExZWoD6)

# When can I form or join parties?

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*LWVD3r62DH9MsvBe)

The Cheeze Wizards Tournament has three different phases. You can only form or
join a party during the first two phases: The Gathering and The Beat and
Greet.

Once the Championship phase begins, you can no longer form or join parties.

# What do I need to know about creating or joining a party?

  * You can create as many parties as you’d like
  * You can enroll as many Wizards into as many parties as you like
  * Each of your Wizards can belong to a different party (but each individual Wizard can only belong to one party, not multiple parties)
  * Once added, Wizards can’t leave parties (it’s a magical manners thing)
  * Each party has a Lead Wizard, who remains attached to the party throughout the duration of the entire Tournament
  * The player who owns the Lead Wizard is the Party Leader.
  * Your cut of the Party Prize is based on the total power of the Wizards you’ve contributed to the party

# What is a Party Leader?

The Party Leader is the player who owns the party’s Lead Wizard.

The Party Leader has special administrative permissions to close, open, and
lock (i.e., prevent additional Wizards from joining) the party. The only way
to transfer that permission is to sell, trade, or gift the Lead Wizard to
another wallet address or player.

# How do I determine my cut of the Party Prize?

Your cut of the Party Prize is based on the total power of Wizards you’ve
contributed to the party. For example, let’s say you own eight Wizards, and
that you’ve enrolled four of them in Party I and four of them in Party II. The
total party power is at 10,000 for Party II, so if your four Wizards make up
5,000 power, that means you would get a 50% cut of the Party Prize.

Whoever is crowned the Big Cheeze is no longer eligible for a cut of the Party
Prize. Instead, their share is redistributed to the other party members.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*zAWf82BidonxZ4v6)

# How do I know if my Wizard can join a party?

If a Wizard has lost more than 50% of its original power, it won’t be able to
join a party. Wizards lose their power by losing duels. Other than that, all
Wizards above 50% of their original power can join parties (provided they meet
that party’s power requirements).

Pro tip: Enroll your Wizards in parties as soon as you summon them! This way,
they’re at full power and are guaranteed to be able to join a party. Once your
Wizard loses a duel and half of their original power, they may never be able
to join a party.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*Ow6BQH9Eq9hxbYjK)

# How big should my party be?

We suggest that every party should have 5+ players with a minimum of 1 Wizard
per player. Any fewer, and your party might not have enough power to win the
Tournament, but too many Wizards also reduces each party member’s cut of the
Party Prize. It’s all about strategy, baby.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*kz5gaVaixfL2ojGc)

# How do I win the Party Prize?

If a member of your party is crowned the Big Cheeze and wins the entire
Tournament, the other members of the party collect the spoils of the Party
Prize. For those interested, here’s how the Party Prize breaks down.

The distribution of the Party Prize depends on the total power they’ve
contributed. We’ve made a handy diagram to help you with the math:

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*XCfW8yxED_3vm0FE)

Here’s what a typical party might look like. It has more than 5 players,
meaning they are eligible for the maximum Party Prize. The total party power
is over 10,000, which means a higher chance of winning the Big Cheeze.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*T84TuGsgvRB0E4Q6)

The only way to win the Party Prize is if someone within your party wins the
Big Cheeze. Remember that the distribution of the Party Prize is based on the
total power of wizards you’ve contributed to the party. So, in this diagram
Player 3 has contributed 2000 power and owns a 20% cut in this party. When one
of Player 3’s Wizards wins the Big Cheeze, they are no longer eligible for
their 20% cut in the party prize — instead it is redistributed to the other
party members. That way the winnings are shared fairly.

# It’s almost party time…

Don’t miss your invite to the party-making party! Join [the Cheeze Wizards
Discord](https://discordapp.com/invite/6RxgZrZ) and [follow us on
Twitter](https://twitter.com/CHZWZRDS) to keep up-to-date on all the latest
cheezy gossip and Tournament news.

 **> **[**Sign up to party down with Cheeze
Wizards!**](https://www.cheezewizards.com/?utm_source=DLblog)

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Dapper Labs](/dapperlabs?source=post_page-----
d4d8921370f--------------------------------)

The serious business of fun and games on the blockchain

[Read more from Dapper Labs](/dapperlabs?source=post_page-----
d4d8921370f--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Cindy Yang](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*r-saleTe72KQU-
GQvbH9jQ.jpeg)](/@yang6809?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[Cindy Yang

](/@yang6809?source=post_internal_links---------0----------------------------)

## Digital games and its impacts for us

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*bOqQqztK8UJJ8hAxvpFy3g.jpeg)](/@yang6809/digital-
games-and-its-impacts-for-us-74eb8be4ab88?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![cssyellow](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@cssyellow?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[cssyellow

](/@cssyellow?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Port Wheel Of Fortune Game

](/@cssyellow/port-wheel-of-fortune-
game-816e52b6b14f?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![mcflyy.](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*_SS9apr4JURA23g0yLBfSw.jpeg)](/@mcflyy?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[mcflyy.

](/@mcflyy?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

## Destiny 2: Season of the Worthy Power Leveling Guide

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*_SZYADAMApmc6Mfra4pNWg.jpeg)](/@mcflyy/destiny-2-season-
of-the-worthy-power-leveling-guide-8aac2619b79f?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[[![Tanzim
Rashid](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*ag3x9NOWqXcR_x76HybiRg.jpeg)](/@tanzim1080?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Tanzim Rashid

](/@tanzim1080?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Game Review: Shadow of the Tomb Raider

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*B3HkCdfs0aJKHkM952C7dA.jpeg)](/@tanzim1080/game-
review-shadow-of-the-tomb-raider-8772dfee6547?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[[![Damasca
Ramza](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*IZbXqfqFRGCod5Zq.jpg)](/@damascaramza?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Damasca Ramza

](/@damascaramza?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Life Reboot 2020 — March

](/@damascaramza/life-
reboot-2020-march-99c09affbc24?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Lynxotic](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*JWzx3EPYQO_vwqK6vbCXew.png)](/@lynxotic?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Lynxotic

](/@lynxotic?source=post_internal_links---------5----------------------------)

in

[Lynxotic

](https://medium.com/lynxotic?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Sony and Microsoft to launch new consoles- PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X
by end of 2020

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Vb-
dyn2vrU1igYS3xqRA1A.png)](/lynxotic/sony-and-microsoft-to-launch-new-consoles-
playstation-5-and-xbox-series-x-by-end-
of-2020-443811447495?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Anorakku](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*LPhLagaSw5KPwMmjX4C5rg.jpeg)](/@anorakku?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Anorakku

](/@anorakku?source=post_internal_links---------6----------------------------)

## MSI Mid-Season Invitational and Groups Breakdown

](/@anorakku/msi-mid-season-invitational-and-groups-
breakdown-7da898deae46?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Anne
Munition](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*55nfKyMVEstxidiQ.png)](/@AnneMunition?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Anne Munition

](/@AnneMunition?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

in

[Anne Munition

](https://medium.com/anne-munition?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Streaming 101

](/anne-munition/streaming-101-2435306f60b?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----d4d8921370f--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
d4d8921370f--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
d4d8921370f--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
d4d8921370f--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
d4d8921370f--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----d4d8921370f--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----d4d8921370f--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdapperlabs%2Fplay-
cheeze-wizards-with-your-friends-by-forming-
parties-d4d8921370f&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Dapper
Labs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*4qrJW34TWRKo2UlCo9IqbQ.png)](/@hellodapper)

[

## Dapper Labs

](/@hellodapper)

800 Followers

The serious business of fun and games on the blockchain

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F92fd7014333&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdapperlabs%2Fplay-
cheeze-wizards-with-your-friends-by-forming-
parties-d4d8921370f&newsletterV3=6544777e30d2&newsletterV3Id=92fd7014333&user=Dapper+Labs&userId=6544777e30d2&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Georgia Heracleous](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*gZpfANziEbmaUB-
QMk3NWA.jpeg)](/@heracleous.georgia?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------74507268_4505_424f_90dc_cd47d0ad3d53-------)

[Georgia Heracleous

](/@heracleous.georgia?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
74507268_4505_424f_90dc_cd47d0ad3d53-------)

## The Stone Heads NFT— Bringing classic and contemporary art to digital world
— All you need to know

![](https://miro.medium.com/freeze/focal/112/112/50/50/0*6zk9CoEJ1C5tmwz4.gif)](/@heracleous.georgia/the-
stone-heads-nft-bringing-classic-and-contemporary-art-to-digital-world-all-
you-need-to-know-89333be9eff6?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------74507268_4505_424f_90dc_cd47d0ad3d53-------)

[[![The
Fractalist](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*1IReJyhM8s1cpWjcFB3dTQ.png)](/@thefractalist_?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------74507268_4505_424f_90dc_cd47d0ad3d53-------)

[The Fractalist

](/@thefractalist_?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
74507268_4505_424f_90dc_cd47d0ad3d53-------)

in

[The Fractalist ❄️

](https://medium.com/the-fractalist?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------74507268_4505_424f_90dc_cd47d0ad3d53-------)

## Anima Shells

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*1XNb31nzoanZzhhBKES20Q.jpeg)](/the-
fractalist/anima-shells-5ef1f2e622a6?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------74507268_4505_424f_90dc_cd47d0ad3d53-------)

[[![Atlas
Corporation](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Vcx51vPl36N8WwaqAqVDzA.png)](/@atlascorp?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------74507268_4505_424f_90dc_cd47d0ad3d53-------)

[Atlas Corporation

](/@atlascorp?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
74507268_4505_424f_90dc_cd47d0ad3d53-------)

## Atlas Corporation Integrates Chainlink VRF and Chainlink Data Feeds to Help
Power NFT-Based…

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*81Wt2ZRArLmO1tVG)](/@atlascorp/atlas-
corporation-integrates-chainlink-vrf-and-chainlink-data-feeds-to-help-power-
nft-based-d1d7e2ff8a26?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
74507268_4505_424f_90dc_cd47d0ad3d53-------)

[[![Paraland.xyz](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*yg-
mjBquBBXLFdyUqth9fQ.jpeg)](/@paraland.xyz?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------74507268_4505_424f_90dc_cd47d0ad3d53-------)

[Paraland.xyz

](/@paraland.xyz?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
74507268_4505_424f_90dc_cd47d0ad3d53-------)

## The Sanctuary

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*um0XMCoXbSrcku1isjexwQ.png)](/@paraland.xyz/the-
sanctuary-978ef6e2748a?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
74507268_4505_424f_90dc_cd47d0ad3d53-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

