[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/b5b2181e054e&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![POAP](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*8ha1Vei7ERHf2SdDiAgHTw.jpeg)](https://medium.com/poap?source=post_page
-----b5b2181e054e--------------------------------)

Published in

[POAP

](https://medium.com/poap?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------)

[![POAP](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/2*-tXYUo5P1wjiNDXfPLdxsw.png)](/@poap?source=post_page
-----b5b2181e054e--------------------------------)

[POAP](/@poap?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------)

Follow

Jan 23, 2020

·

15 min read

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*jYBD_mCMuEoabfSKbRAHvw.png)

The impressive downtown of Buenos Aires (Argentina) on a rainy day

# POAP 2019 Recap

# (And plans for 2020)

## ETHDenver will mark the first year anniversary of the Proof of Attendance
Protocol and these are our thoughts.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/728/1*gicJ4HUoJlUJFoUSU4x34A.png)

If you have never heard of POAP before, that’s too bad because in a true
Ethereum-ecosystem fashion, all the information about the project is horribly
scattered around different highly centralized web2 properties, like:

  * [Twitter (http://twitter.com/poapxyz)](http://twitter.com/poapxyz)
  * [Telegram (http://t.me/poapxyz)](http://t.me/poapxyz)
  * [Discord (http://poap.xyz/discord](http://poap.xyz/discord))
  * [Github (http://github.com/poapxyz](http://github.com/poapxyz))
  * [Our own website (http://poap.xyz)](http://poap.xyz)
  * [Reddit](http://reddit.com/r/poap) (http://reddit.com/r/poap )
  * And we are adding Medium for more and better clutter!

# Chronologic _al non-exhaustive review of e_ vents that had POAP magic in
2019:

#  **ETHDenver (February 2019 )**

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*S81ieT6XEWrt1FPCG9L7-g.jpeg)

Launching POAP on ETHDenver honored the concept of a hackathon. It was really
a marathon of non-stop coding and then launch and capture of users.  
It was an unforgettable experience and we made it past the finish line
triumphantly thanks to the help of many friends. For getting the POAP NFT you
had to open a web3 browser and access http://ethdenver.poap.xyz which was a
website hosted in the local wifi network and didn’t work from the outer
internet. It was a nice hack that made us really proud and was also very short
lived. Tech-wise it was impossible to scale and the UX made some users water
their eyes.

[See the Kaury Submission for some good archeology](https://kauri.io/poap-
submission/f444b199f5814e6397aaa9b9bd42494f/a)

# EthCC/ETHParis (March 2019)

Thumbnail at the frame of the POPE-MOBILE. We renamed to PO-AP soon after.

We couldn’t catch up on rest after Denver that we flew to Paris for EthCC and
ETHParis.

The six days of conference + hackathon were really intense. It was motivating
to enjoy early validation of the core value proposition.

YouTube video is Gonzalo’s lightning talk courtesy of our host, the best
ginger in the space, [Pascal Van Hecke](https://twitter.com/pascalvanhecke).  
The events in Paris were eye-opening regarding the disastrous end user UX. We
had people coming to us wanting the NFTs, but most wallets didn’t comply
correctly with the ERC-721 standard, many didn’t even display NFTs at all. The
wifi claiming system was also pretty much broken because of the security
policies of that crazy 42 venue where the hackathon took place.  
This would have been a very disappointing experience if we lacked all the
emotional support of many community members around that cheered although the
product was broken all around. To name some: [Liam
Horne](https://twitter.com/liamihorne), [Adrian
Brink](https://twitter.com/adrian_brink), [Sunny
Agrawal](https://twitter.com/sunnya97),
[Awacate](https://twitter.com/awasunyin), [Hadrien
Crubo](https://twitter.com/amxx)is and [Freddy
Zwanzger](https://twitter.com/_crypto_crack) for the earliest validation!

# EDCON Sydney (April 2019)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1024/1*8vYcfnyROGsIqVH772YpdQ.png)

The cozy atmosphere of both the hackathon and the conference allowed nice
discussions and sparked exciting ideas.  
There were so many ETH 2.0 developers and so many fundamental design decisions
about it to be made, that for the first time someone came up with the idea of
making a voting/polling system were you had to own a POAP of certain event to
be eligible for voting.

Some valuable validation and feedback from [Rick
Dudley](https://twitter.com/afdudley0), [Kain
Warwick](https://twitter.com/kaiynne) (before he became a Defi celebrity!),
[Shane Hong](https://twitter.com/shaneMkt) and [Deniz
Omer](https://twitter.com/denizomer) from Kyber among many others. This time
the tokens were only issued manually on demand… it was centralized but it
generally worked fine.

# ETH New York City (May 2019)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*MJh5UtymA067nUiJJjoTQQ.jpeg)

Our improvised booth with the rosettes (Cockades for the British)

For the first time ETHGlobal appoints us to officially issue POAPs to all
attendees. This was flattering and challenging because we were still using the
kludgy codebase from Denver. We had a brand new smart contract to use, with
better design patterns and practices but we needed to migrate all the pre-
issued tokens and we decided to postpone that.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*gR2-z0sanyVcHrf-EArHgw.jpeg)

This hackathon was a blast, likely the most thrilling among all the events in
the history of POAP. This was when the project moved from 0 to 1.

The now famous POAP rosettes debut putting us on the spotlight and quickly
gets the attention of the curious Vitalik Buterin, who shows up at our desk to
learn what was this about.

The tokens were issued by pulling the
[Kickback](https://medium.com/wearekickback/about) API, so we were sure that
all 300 hackers got the NFT it in their wallets.

# Zcon1 (Split, Croatia, June 2019)

By June of 2019 POAP was five months old, had incipient traction on its own, a
couple of hundreds of NFT on mainnet and just released a new, much improved
codebase. The tokens on Zcon1 were still issued manually, but that wasn’t a
problem because the people spontaneously came to ask for it.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*ubDdAGdh52-G3fIQrBeVWg.png)

The Zcash community was experiencing serious difficulties on collecting
community sentiment at scale, and the idea of a “POAP Vote” showed up in a few
workshops. POAP runs on the ethereum mainnet and follows the ERC-721 standard,
that means that privacy is non-existent and that of course surfaced some
backlash and very welcomed criticism.

The
[#poap_friends](https://twitter.com/hashtag/poap_friends?f=tweets&vertical=default&src=hash)
series of Twitter started here, as a way to be thankful with all the kind
people we were on boarding.

# ETHIndia 2 (Bangalore — August 2019)

Bringing POAP to India was an expensive bet that payed off.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*T65u0_gntXdALB52PDpOLw.png)

The combination of the
[ETHGlobal](https://medium.com/u/3d1733b8e86a?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------),
[Devfolio](https://medium.com/u/db572a13f461?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) and the local community was
perfect and we learnt a great deal about how to make POAP better. [Arnaud
Schenk](https://medium.com/u/be5d58e84bc1?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------)
([Twitter](https://twitter.com/_arnauds_)) from [AZTEC
team](https://medium.com/u/fcf0cd0b3216?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) offered good advise on how to
bring privacy to POAP and we met again with old friends from [Kyber
Network](https://medium.com/u/a9fee3ae58e4?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------),
[Aavesome](https://medium.com/u/13bfa9f22920?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), and
[Matic](https://medium.com/u/7961fd6ea60b?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------). A fundamental takeaway from the
India experience was that for serving the indian market the product needs to
be prepared for india-scale events. A regular hackathon in a mid-size city of
india can easily bring over 5000 people. Gas prices average those days were
above 5–10gwei so we started exploring L2 solutions. The NFTs of this event
were issued by pulling the list of ethereum address of the hackers from
Devfolio, an amazing turn-on key solution for hackathon organizers. EthIndia
III on early August 2020 is now a safer bet. Congrats [Shakti
Goap](https://medium.com/u/6955bec062b7?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------).

# Dappcon (August 2019)

And Metacartel Demo Day and ETHBerlinZwei ([Department of
Decentralization](https://medium.com/u/28dfcb2ff841?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------))

Exercising the typical Argentinean ability of doing a lot with too little,
Dappcon was a complete success for POAP — excepting the thing that we
Airdropped the tokens to the EtherCards of both Dappcon an ETHBerlin and
almost nobody bothered to get the tokens out of them. This was an expensive
lesson, as the airdrop was quite costly, bloated the state and didn’t have
anything close to the desired impact. Even worse, some people are using the
cards’ keypair as their main Ethereum account (big no!)

This sad lesson was completely offset because [Anna
George](https://medium.com/u/5ff1008bbd0d?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) from
[Gnosis](https://medium.com/u/e7281ad70ea?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) with all her sweetness tendered
us a booth in the sponsors area where we were constantly swarmed by people
coming to learn more about POAP, play games… and ask for help about how to
take the non fungible token out of the EtherCard ha :-(

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1298/1*prpxgx1pkcpWUMcNnSeCBQ.png)

Some guests we were honored to have visit our both: [Alexey
Akhunov](https://medium.com/u/404913b2c32b?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), [Eric
Conner](https://medium.com/u/7b4274c523a2?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), [Rick
Dudley](https://medium.com/u/b7cdf738a6e1?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), [Jerome de
Tychey](https://medium.com/u/99237fd39b7b?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), [Boyun
Pyun](https://medium.com/u/4c488c13d6bd?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), [Matt
Condon](https://medium.com/u/3199e60ae2b1?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), [Anthony
Bertolino](https://medium.com/u/98e67840e638?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), [Anthony
Sassano](https://medium.com/u/473a5c521558?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), and many others friends new and
old !  
Special mention to our neighboring booth of
[Dhack](https://medium.com/u/55d35ee8959b?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) maned by [Eylon
Aviv](https://medium.com/u/15ff33aceed2?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) and to [Dune
Analytics](https://medium.com/u/9a3c7a1eca8b?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) who helped with some serious
last minute data extraction challenge.  
But Dappcon wasn’t the only event of the Berlin Blokchain Week that had top
argentinean ingenuity. ETHBerlinZwei led by [Maria Paula
Fernández](https://medium.com/u/214c76b0e6c6?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) (and [Helena
Flack](https://medium.com/u/5aa50cc326f7?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) and others) was a mindblowing
experience were we managed to boil and catalyze lots of ideas we wanted to
realize for POAP. Barron Jetter and Eli Turlington finally achieved the top
positions in the POAP token holder leaderboard as the previous leader [Evan
Van Ness](https://medium.com/u/687ad05f5a7c?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) was absent from the conference
circuit for a while (paternity leave).

The MetaCartel Demo Day looks dwarfed next to these amazing experiences, but
the truth is that, on a shoestring budget, they put together a fantastic event
that sparked very valuable conversations, including the initial thoughts of
using POAP for sybil resistant airdrops. POAP met with [Luis
Bezzenberger](https://medium.com/u/a290aefe513f?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) from [Brainbot
Technologies](https://medium.com/u/3c01ee4a0e27?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) / [Trustlines
Network](https://medium.com/u/9ece057c6080?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) who later would launch the
interesting [Trustlines
Merkledrop](https://twitter.com/poapxyz/status/1212530487652044802) using
POAP.  
[Nate Geier](https://medium.com/u/a261da883831?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) and @mintbase deserve a mention
as they smoothly managed the ticketing.

# ETHBoston (September 2019)

And defi summit London and Tel Aviv Blockchain Week

[ETHGlobal](https://medium.com/u/3d1733b8e86a?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) was putting their best resources
and bringing the best people to the heart of Cambridge (Massachusetts) and
POAP needed to be there.  
Reviving the spirit of Ethdenver, we spent the whole weekend hacking as if our
lives depended from that.

We built the POAP Vote, a proof of concept of sybil-resistant quadratic-voting
based on POAP token holdings. The product is feature rich and quite complex.
It’s all thoroughly explained in the following link, which I encourage you to
read because it was really a lot of work to build in such a short period of
time.

[

## POAP Vote

### Landing Vote page Decentralized protocols (like Ethereum but also tens of
others) are particularly hard to govern. It's…

devpost.com

](https://devpost.com/software/poap-vote)

Congraulations to the Queen of lobster [Jinglan
Wang](https://medium.com/u/24ccbbfadc2c?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) and the princess [Mel
Vera](https://medium.com/u/9bb4c4c81c8f?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) and many thanks to all of you
who helped across the weekend: [Hayden
Adams](https://medium.com/u/ec7001b3c11f?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), [Mariano
Conti](https://medium.com/u/2d202f8a6e3a?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), [Marguerite
deCourcelle](https://medium.com/u/22684087c704?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), [Alex
Atallah](https://medium.com/u/e7f113633e66?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), [Libby
Kent](https://medium.com/u/d86e126070d6?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), Tyler Kell,
[CryptoPenguin](https://medium.com/u/e447fb6571d1?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) and others.

From there we flew to London for the Defi Summit where we kept growing POAP
and learning how to make it better.  
Thanks to: [Alex
Gluchowski](https://medium.com/u/8b3a673b9ad5?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) from Matter Labs for the advice
on privacy and scaling and your general support. [Cambrial
Capital](https://medium.com/u/7575c7224d0e?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) for putting the event together,
[Lenka Hudakova](https://medium.com/u/89e248321958?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), [Matthew
Finestone](https://medium.com/u/142262013cf8?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), [Megan
Knab](https://medium.com/u/d3c33081a34e?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), [keld van
schreven](https://medium.com/u/13c2ade7679e?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), [George
Mcdonaugh](https://medium.com/u/c1a27672d4b?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), [Deniz
Omer](https://medium.com/u/7efe180d50b7?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), [Hugh
Karp](https://medium.com/u/ccc0d96706c9?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), and others.

Right the next day after the defi summit finished, we decided that we loved
POAP so much that we would pollute the atmosphere even more by traveling to
Tel Aviv, and polluting the environment is something that POAP actively avoids
when possible. Big thanks and mention to
[portis](https://medium.com/u/56bd0a809585?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), our host whom without the trip
wouldn’t been possible. We missed Ethereal because of health issues but we
were recovered at the time of the StartWare sessions. POAP makes it to the
event with already thousands of NFT on mainnet and a growing set of identities
for conducting different experiments. Some good conversations happen with
[Albert Ni](https://medium.com/u/58d575a5ddac?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), @barrywhitehat and [Vitalik
Buterin](https://medium.com/u/587a00dbce51?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) and we start working on the
ambitious idea of a POAP vote system that uses ZK tech to conceal the contents
of the vote. This final project would be released later by [Koh Wei
Jie](https://medium.com/u/6b3918f4b5a2?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), more information here:

[

## Private voting and whistleblowing in Ethereum using Semaphore

### In a previous post, I wrote a technical explanation of Semaphore, a zero-
knowledge privacy gadget built on Ethereum…

medium.com

](/@weijiek/private-voting-and-whistleblowing-in-ethereum-using-
semaphore-449b376808e)

# And we made it to DeVcon! (Osaka, JP, October 2019)

The road to Devcon was bumpy and frightening. It was during ETHBerlinZwei that
[Aya Miyaguchi](https://medium.com/u/5a00ecc8a89f?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) got her first POAP rosette and
when she said yes to the POAP proposal of issuing a Non-Fungible token to
every attendee of Devcon5.

The Ethereum Foundation doesn’t lend its legitimacy easily, and when it does,
it expects the best outcome. This puts some pressure on us as there were
certainly several challenges:

  * The ticketing system was already in place and it didn’t collect the addresses of the attendees (we wished it had Kickback)
  * The network gas costs averaged 10–20gwei because of the FairWin ponzi (each token issuance takes 190000 gas units)
  * The event was in Japan! (culture gap made impossible for us to source materials locally)
  * We didn’t have much time

The Buenos Aires based software factory [**Xivis**](http://www.xivis.com) who
was helping POAP since May offered to assemble a dedicated team to come up
with a solution and the POAP claim system was born.

The way it would work was simple: at registration/check-in, every attendee
would get a POAP rosette with a **_luggage tag_** on the back with a unique QR
code and a flyer with instructions and general information. After scanning the
QR code they would be shown a landing page to input their ENS name or address.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*eUiRze405-IovFzslDoRQw.png)

The POAP rosette and the luggage tag

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1154/1*g-riX76j-t-Siyc7514eAg.png)

The landing page featuring DEVA the unicorn

Set speed to 0.25x to understand exactly what the process meant — for 5000
tokens

This one is accelerated 4x. Feel free to calculate how long it too to stick
the 5000 stickers.

We rushed the Argentinian manufacturer of patches and got several different
designs to offer a gamified experience.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1356/1*DwiEFg57nPqIKg7y4VNW2w.png)

After a couple of all nighters we finished sticking the 5000 luggage tags.
Next challenge was packing them and figuring out how to put them in Japan, on
time, safely. First decision was to wrap them in bags of 40 rosettes each.
This was so they could be activated on demand and the leftovers used in the
future. If we did enable all the 5000 pieces and then found that we got 1000
unused, there wouldn’t be a way to mass-reset them for future use.

We debated wether it was better to split the payload on different travelers
and decided that only one person would carry them all, on a single piece of
luggage, arriving several days early to Japan just in case. Customs are well
known to create problems and we had to cross two (The united states and
Japan).

This is how they looked on the suitcase:

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*NGLOkvPFNH9-pGpP2n7b4w.png)

So far they looked nice…. sadly they didn’t fit like this neatly.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*kyex4w9WIMhz2-F9ng_DJQ.png)

> If they are not drugs, why did you pack them like drugs?
>
> Japanese customs official

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*vP_alLIVE9wpmgUanp5eUg.png)

Eventually we all made it to Osaka

So on the day before Devcon day zero we meet [Skylar
Weaver](https://medium.com/u/d04852e02397?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), the head of volunteers and were
pleased to discover that the guy is amazing. That gives us some relief because
we knew that registration was the last challenge.  
He delegates the responsibility to [Dominique
Kunz](https://medium.com/u/4c804bfd7a5c?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) who was in charge of everything
check-in and that was another also relieving because she’s the type of
overachieving person that can’t be happy if things are not right.

All the volunteers did a good job, special thanks to [Jaha
Ganiev](https://medium.com/u/7266c456c62a?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) from Etherscan, [Carolin
W.](https://medium.com/u/78421b04b6f3?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) and Yevgeny.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*4GHIG8HpFfrCtJAPjc8KGA.png)

Conference brochure, POAP rosette and flyer

After spending day zero and one around the registration desks just in case we
were needed, we finally called it a success, relaxed and mounted the portable
POAP booth in the main open space of the conference hall:

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*VluUheMGj6iacd0Scyz_pg.png)

[Bruno Balzani](https://medium.com/u/b6d5d0168cc7?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), [Anthony
Sassano](https://medium.com/u/473a5c521558?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------), [Brian
Prilick](https://medium.com/u/aaf809e78030?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/978/1*Ud01bKmzcZ3BV3bQ13Qnmg.png)

The POAP carry on with a
[BokkyPooBah](https://medium.com/u/f5b908f9db99?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) kitty

On the last day [Joseph
Schweitzer](https://medium.com/u/52b88a31aa49?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) diligently sent a push
notification to remind everyone to claim the NFTs:

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1140/1*uXmut7AQIps4KuMyBPVkXA.png)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*QaM8GBbI89JiYUIRgs6QCg.png)

# The deployment of POAP on Devcon 5 was a success. We made lots of people
happy.

The dataset of POAP token holders of devcon5 is a now a highly curated list of
people that anyone can trustlessly use by snapshotting the ethereum state,
without our help, without us being able to stop it.

> ETH New York is how to got from zero to one, Devcon was how we got from one
> to ten. The next milestone is getting from ten to a hundred.

# EthWaterloo (Canada, November 2019)

For closing the year 2019
[ETHGlobal](https://medium.com/u/3d1733b8e86a?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) made us go to where all started,
and good thing we went. It was again a lovely experience.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*C7bmTkFnkPCofgyLcPTlCg.png)

EthWaterloo was a testing ground for a new way to issue POAP NFTs. The
attendance system was managed by [Unlock Protocol](http://www.unlock-
protocol.com), a project led by [Julien
Genestoux](https://medium.com/u/e7c36ee7f624?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------).

Once again the [Xivis](http://www.xivis.com) team came up with a solution and
now the projects can work together leveraging the power of Ethereum’s
composability. Every event that uses Unlock for their registrations, can issue
POAP seamlessly.

EthWaterloo was a nice opportunity to celebrate a year of growth and also
sparked the initial conversations with team members of the [Marketing
DAO](https://medium.com/u/31459cf69106?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) who hopefully will help us
running POAP in 2020.

# You may think that you are finally finishing….

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/918/1*cCHdde6auW-szkEG22O3Mw.png)

The truth is, all this year 2019 we’ve been a bunch of people working a lot to
make POAP better, we’ve done lots of experiments around the world, and we
never shared much with the people that don’t attend events; so there’s a
backlog.

After EthWaterloo we started opening POAP to third parties that run events on
the Ethereum space, for them to issue tokens and move forward with the
decentralization of POAP.

We are very thankful to:

  * [James Waugh](https://medium.com/u/df302bc17d53?source=post_page-----b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) who issued POAP at 2 events in New Zealand
  * Maurice Von Glassenap who issued POAP at the Berlin meetup
  * [Kathleen Chu](https://medium.com/u/72f1f43412ae?source=post_page-----b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) of MakerDAO who issued POAP in the defi Meetup of Tokyo
  * [Thomas Jay Rush](https://medium.com/u/b9038003bde4?source=post_page-----b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) for issuing POAPs in the Philadelphia Ethereum meetup
  * [Paul Cowgill](https://medium.com/u/46b7271ef3f8?source=post_page-----b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) for using POAPs on the Chicago meetup
  * [Cristian Garner](https://medium.com/u/97de86d3064?source=post_page-----b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) for using POAPs in events in Honduras
  * [DeFi Dude](https://medium.com/u/cf33e7c96ef6?source=post_page-----b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) for issuing POAPs in the Chicago Defi meetup
  * [Chih-Cheng](https://medium.com/u/5c031577a87d?source=post_page-----b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) and [Yuren Ju](https://medium.com/u/4a6ce25fcf6e?source=post_page-----b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) for issuing POAPs in the Taipei meetup
  * [Mariano Conti](https://medium.com/u/2d202f8a6e3a?source=post_page-----b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) for issuing POAPs on your own birthday party!

# The Ethereum Buenos Aires meetup

[ _ethereumbuenosaires.com_](https://ethereumbuenosaires.com/)

[

## Ethereum Buenos Aires

### The Ethereum Bueons Aires Meetup

](https://ethereumbuenosaires.com/)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*Uah1lxdpldqSw74p2CMhrQ.jpeg)

The chaotic and beautiful Buenos Aires

As much as we were traveling to attend all the events that were featured in
the article, we managed to not miss a single edition of the monthly Ethereum
Buenos Aires meetup since June. On these nine events (there were specials) we
run experiments of all sorts to make POAP better. We are very proud of our
local community.

# Now finally, what’s in the menu for 2020 !

We have very ambitious plans for the Proof of Attendance Protocol. On the
grand vision, POAP is not just a tool for Ethereum people to have fun, but a
real world product that solves real world needs, for people that don’t care
about blockchains. It was a fundamental reason to build POAP on the first
place, that such a product could achieve results that no other technology can.
Giving people the opportunity to hold and use cryptographic proofs of where
they were enables applications that humanity never pursued because they were
simply not technologically possible.

Every time someone creative learns about POAP they reply with a new use case,
in all industries, for all purposes.

# POAP has three groups of users, and in 2020 we want to foster them all:

 ** _Collectors_** : We want you to keep collecting tokens, every time you go
to an Ethereum event, make sure you get the POAP. If the organizer is not yet
on board on POAP, help them. Right now there’s not much you can do besides
hodling them and maybe claiming the Trustlines Merkledrop, but we are working
on groundbreaking functionality and the more POAPs you have, the better.

 ** _Token issuers_** : If you run Ethereum events, whether they are physical
or virtual (like community calls), please consider using POAP, reach out to us
and see how it can work. POAP is all about network effects, the more people
issuing tokens using the same standard, the more powerful the network becomes.

 ** _Dapp developers_ : **Everything POAP creates is open source, if you can
leverage the POAP datasets for anything, go ahead and do it. If you need help,
reach out to us and we will help. Some ideas about things that can be built
right now:

  *  **Voting/polling** : You can ask a certain group of users what do they think about something, with very strong sybil resistance guarantees, at very low cost. Even if you are not a dapp developer but you need to do polls, checkout POAP Vote, the codebase is commented and can be reused for different purposes.
  *  **DAO/Curation**. Are you starting a DAO and need to bootstrap? you can airdrop shares to your target audience based on the events they have been.
  *  **Beta testers** : Are you launching a new product and need highly skilled testers?
  *  **Defi** : Uncollateralized credit becomes a reality with an identity substrate that takes real world effort to build and it’s increasingly harder to trick.
  *  **Marketing** : Loyalty can now be proven and rewarded on a trustless very low cost fashion.
  *  **Social graphs:** Finding like-minded by checking POAP token overlapping can create social graphs to be used openly without gatekeepers.

# 2020 events schedule

POAP has so far planed activities for:

  * [ETHDenver](https://medium.com/u/79079ae79889?source=post_page-----b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) (thanks [John Paller](https://medium.com/u/39febdf9be98?source=post_page-----b5b2181e054e--------------------------------) and [Justin Moskowitz](https://medium.com/u/53175a8617a4?source=post_page-----b5b2181e054e--------------------------------)) Feb 14th 2020
  * ETHCC (thanks [Asseth](https://medium.com/u/f7d5ea695cc8?source=post_page-----b5b2181e054e--------------------------------)) Mar 3rd 2020
  * ETHLondon (thanks [Jacob Willemsma](https://medium.com/u/1110cf9e6420?source=post_page-----b5b2181e054e--------------------------------)) Feb 28th 2020
  * Dappcon ( Thanks [Anna George](https://medium.com/u/5ff1008bbd0d?source=post_page-----b5b2181e054e--------------------------------)) September 2020

# Final notes:

  * POAP doesn’t make any money. Everything so far has been done on a volunteer effort by generous people that wants this to exist. This has hindered our ability to develop new features, we would be further down the road if we had more resources.
  * If you or your organization considers that this is valuable for the ecosystem, be sure that we are open to receive help whether it’s direct funding in the form of grants or other valuables, even Google Cloud credits for the front end costs come handy. Anonymous donations can be sent to POAP.eth.
  * POAP could run on different platforms, we’ve been approached by a bunch of Ethereum killers (you would be surprised how many are out there) with tempting offers, and we rejected them all. We are Ethereum first and we want to keep it like that.
  * Individuals that been instrumental in the growth of POAP have been omitted from this article either intentionally or forgetfully. We still love you.

[Public domain.](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/mark/1.0/)

\--

\--

\--

## [More from POAP](/poap?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------)

Proof of Attendance Protocol

[Read more from POAP](/poap?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Dentacoin](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*Sn0ym-
gQmIw2eXN1.jpg)](/@dentacoin?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[Dentacoin

](/@dentacoin?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Dentacoin Weekly Updates: May 15–22, 2020

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*Lz7n2SbbjYIX_K0a.png)](/@dentacoin/dentacoin-
weekly-updates-may-15-22-2020-771874f84742?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![PoorYachtClub](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*_jzebgdxv4bncd93KbDYrQ.png)](/@PoorYachtClub?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[PoorYachtClub

](/@PoorYachtClub?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## I REALLY like this gaming crypto project (10x-100x potential?!) — ALTURA

](/@PoorYachtClub/i-really-like-this-gaming-crypto-project-10x-100x-potential-
altura-5699d0d0e334?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Hansel](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Omwgvy0AsI3Kpd59YYE7-w.png)](/@h.ansel?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Hansel

](/@h.ansel?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

## You Can't Fight This Manipulated Crypto Market

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*IZcJKz3761vChU1VFHfzkw.jpeg)](/@h.ansel/you-
cant-fight-this-manipulated-crypto-market-
fd194d7cd131?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

[[![BanksCoin
BKC](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*VJAKA8l8gCSalxnL5e_iqQ.jpeg)](/@bankscoin?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[BanksCoin BKC

](/@bankscoin?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## BSOV- Dead or Alive?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*4hfrrcbxTYlFn4PRwqONzQ.png)](/@bankscoin/bsov-
dead-or-alive-22efb81125c9?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Cryp†Øfͥบsͣiͫon🆇rp](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*OIcH5EGA5y16Ults)](/@cryptofusionxrp?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Cryp†Øfͥบsͣiͫon🆇rp

](/@cryptofusionxrp?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## XRP/USD: Ripple Fights Higher But Lowest Depths Still Nearby

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*XcYT9j4_sUmC8-BF.jpg)](/@cryptofusionxrp/xrp-
usd-ripple-fights-higher-but-lowest-depths-still-
nearby-1975b320487f?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![akinremi
opeyemi](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*KeYbwn5TOgau_YzIetuNSQ.png)](/@akinremiopeyemi?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[akinremi opeyemi

](/@akinremiopeyemi?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[BlockXnet

](https://medium.com/blockxnet?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## BlockX Network is Perfect for NFT Tokenization

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Qa33xMfdLT95SwAzawFRvQ.jpeg)](/blockxnet/blockx-
network-is-perfect-for-nft-
tokenization-f98a56ec4a5e?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![NearFlux](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*4h14mGcfLxqSgtIwmWtZzA.jpeg)](/@near1flux?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[NearFlux

](/@near1flux?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## NEAR Protocol and Aurora have announced a strategic relationship with
Allbridge

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*uf-vpE-
gPJZbeFKVAMouVw.png)](/@near1flux/near-protocol-and-aurora-have-announced-a-
strategic-relationship-with-allbridge-b0f2a322f7d?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[[![Flux](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*zo0kNX5NhmCWKPo98KnmJg.png)](/@fluxprotocol?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Flux

](/@fluxprotocol?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Announcing the Flux Protocol Foreteller Event — Flux: the trust-less data
layer

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*Ivv1mQSejVZO8eSA.png)](/@fluxprotocol/announcing-
the-flux-protocol-foreteller-event-flux-the-trust-less-data-
layer-15cba5b14da8?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----b5b2181e054e--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
b5b2181e054e--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----b5b2181e054e--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----b5b2181e054e--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fpoap%2Fpoap-
retrospective-of-2019-b5b2181e054e&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![POAP](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/2*-tXYUo5P1wjiNDXfPLdxsw.png)](/@poap)

[

## POAP

](/@poap)

563 Followers

The Proof of Attendance Protocol

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F5b4311958ed2&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fpoap%2Fpoap-
retrospective-
of-2019-b5b2181e054e&newsletterV3=6267d2edc9d5&newsletterV3Id=5b4311958ed2&user=POAP&userId=6267d2edc9d5&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Loggins
Promotion](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*VdmTwJ6kq1zz0Odvo3OTpg.png)](/@LogginsPromotion?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------cf8fb9d5_1b5d_4803_a164_c643205b594e-------)

[Loggins Promotion

](/@LogginsPromotion?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
cf8fb9d5_1b5d_4803_a164_c643205b594e-------)

in

[Hot Independent Music

](https://medium.com/hot-independent-music?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------cf8fb9d5_1b5d_4803_a164_c643205b594e-------)

## Candlebox To Be Featured In New Documentary From Warner Music

![Candlebox To Be Featured In New Documentary From Warner
Music](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*zepnGmcNgftA8lNa.jpg)](/hot-
independent-music/candlebox-to-be-featured-in-new-documentary-from-warner-
music-d38f1d6ae5f?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
cf8fb9d5_1b5d_4803_a164_c643205b594e-------)

[[![perritoDOG](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*QAZAwJiCTkTkNWIn98ULKw.jpeg)](/@perritoDOG?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------cf8fb9d5_1b5d_4803_a164_c643205b594e-------)

[perritoDOG

](/@perritoDOG?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
cf8fb9d5_1b5d_4803_a164_c643205b594e-------)

## The market of the invented

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*1ZGn1I9qI16kKI1c6BkSTg.png)](/@perritoDOG/the-
market-of-the-invented-ecaa4b2ad552?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------cf8fb9d5_1b5d_4803_a164_c643205b594e-------)

[[![Ishaan](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*5gycRL95uoiB85DHldKHSg.png)](/@itilva8630?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------cf8fb9d5_1b5d_4803_a164_c643205b594e-------)

[Ishaan

](/@itilva8630?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
cf8fb9d5_1b5d_4803_a164_c643205b594e-------)

in

[Arigo

](https://medium.com/arigo?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------cf8fb9d5_1b5d_4803_a164_c643205b594e-------)

## We’re reinventing Discord appeals

](/arigo/arigo-appeals-44376c0027a?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------cf8fb9d5_1b5d_4803_a164_c643205b594e-------)

[[![Robert
Smith](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@Robert15?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------cf8fb9d5_1b5d_4803_a164_c643205b594e-------)

[Robert Smith

](/@Robert15?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
cf8fb9d5_1b5d_4803_a164_c643205b594e-------)

## The Plan By Dan Hollings Review — May 2022

](/@Robert15/the-plan-by-dan-hollings-review-
may-2022-560699b6e66a?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
cf8fb9d5_1b5d_4803_a164_c643205b594e-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

