[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/6be604961261&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![POAP](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*8ha1Vei7ERHf2SdDiAgHTw.jpeg)](https://medium.com/poap?source=post_page
-----6be604961261--------------------------------)

Published in

[POAP

](https://medium.com/poap?source=post_page-----
6be604961261--------------------------------)

[![Cooper Turley](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*oC9rEq2_c-
LEquy79BfOAQ.jpeg)](/@coopahtroopa-eth?source=post_page-----
6be604961261--------------------------------)

[Cooper Turley](/@coopahtroopa-eth?source=post_page-----
6be604961261--------------------------------)

Follow

May 6, 2020

·

4 min read

# POAPs Next Chapter

As many of you know, POAP has become a key building block for events — both
physical and digital — to reward their community for their participation.

Just a few weeks ago, POAP hosted its first [Gitcoin Grant
campaign](https://gitcoin.co/grants/490/poap-proof-of-attendance-protocol) —
raising 8,059 DAI from 128 unique contributors.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*0_np48oJW9zowpf_)

First and foremost, we would like to give a special thank you to each and
every one of you, as this project is entirely driven by passionate community
members such as yourself!

Now, you may be wondering — _we’ve got 8k in the bank, what are we going to do
with it?_

In this article, we’ll be diving into two exciting new features we’re working
on — ultimately adding to our larger goal for POAP to become much more than a
collector's item.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*e3HWNPbJeV7fvA3idYy4-g.png)

Meet POAP Vote (left) and POAP Chat (right)

#  **POAP Vote**

For those who have visited one of the hundreds of notable Ethereum events,
you’ve likely received a POAP either as a part of your check-in or at one of
the dozen events taking place outside of the conference or hackathon.

[

## POAP retrospective of 2019

### (And plans for 2020)

medium.com

](/poap/poap-retrospective-of-2019-b5b2181e054e)

 **Now what if you could use those POAPs to govern subsequent event locations,
food choices, and afterparties?**

> With POAP Vote, anyone can create a poll which can only be voted on by
> specific POAP holders.

To provide a clear example, POAP Vote could allow organizers to issue a poll
for next year’s DevCon location — limiting voting to those who attended DevCon
5 in Osaka last year.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*ATR0lZ2IA_b287zbHTA_MA.png)

Sneak peek at POAP vote ;)

Thanks to [Ben DiFrancesco](https://twitter.com/BenDiFrancesco) and the
ScopeLift team, we’ve built a custom app that allows these unique voting
schemas to become a reality. The POAP Vote idea is one we’ve had for quite
some time, and it’s a perfect use for our generous Gitcoin Grant donations.

Regarding the project, Ben commented:

 _“I love the approach POAP has taken in focusing first on building something
that is easy and fun to use. People love collecting NFTs! It’s been awesome to
help POAP take the next step in building real utility on top of that playful
product. POAP Vote is a pragmatic app communities can use to take the pulse of
their members. I’m excited to see how it’s put to use in the wild.”_

As the product continues to evolve, we’re exploring different ways to
integrate quadratic voting, namely by assigning different POAPs different
weights. Long story short, the primitive of creating restricted, trustless
voting campaigns is quite powerful :)

But, that’s not all we’re working on!

#  **POAP Chat**

Perhaps one of the most exciting angles of web3 is the capacity to create
permissioned gateways using NFTs and token at large.

> With POAP Chat, we’ve built a tailored solution that allows moderators to
> restrict specific channels, groups, and discussions to those who hold
> predefined POAP badges.

We’re currently exploring [Discord](https://discord.gg/tGcfZZD) as our first
integration, largely focusing on channel-specific permissions to help drive
creativity among different POAP holders. Check it out!

Thanks to the [BuidlHub](https://twitter.com/BuidlHub) team, POAP Chat is
quickly evolving into a tool for any community manager to up their private
channels with a little web3 spice!

Mike Coon — a cofounder of Buidlhub added:

 _“We love POAP’s use of NFTs for access control. Using it for exclusive
access to chat channels is a great example of using blockchain to enhance
features of a traditional web platform like Discord. We look forward to seeing
this used to unlock features in other platforms in the future.”_

With all of this in the pipeline, it’s sure to be an exciting couple months
for POAP :D

#  **What’s Next?**

In the coming weeks, we’ll be rolling out private betas for both of these
initiatives and need supporters to help us iron out the kinks.

The best way to stay on the lookout for this is by [joining or
Discord](https://discord.gg/tGcfZZD) or [following our
Twitter](https://twitter.com/poapxyz), where we’ll be sharing any and all POAP
magic as soon as we can.

In the meantime, POAP is continuing to spread its reach despite these trying
times through a suite of virtual events.

We’re silently preparing for the next Ethereum circuit and can’t wait to show
you what we’ve been working on!

Until then, stay safe and POAP on!

#  **FAQ**

##  **How do I know this is safe?**

Both of these features are non-custodial. There is no transfer of assets and
we’re simply reading a wallet balance to scan for existing POAP holdings.

##  **How much does it cost to use these features?**

For both of these awesome features, setup costs are minimal. The only costs
are those associated with calling smart contracts, meaning you’re looking at
$5 or less to get started :)

##  **Who can use these features?**

Once live, all of these features will be live to anyone who finds value in
them! We’re currently searching for pilot partners so if you’re excited to be
one of our first users, please reach out!

## Connect With POAP

[Twitter](http://twitter.com/poapxyz)|[Telegram](http://t.me/poapxyz)|[Discord](http://poap.xyz/discord)|[Github](http://github.com/poapxyz)|[Website](http://poap.xyz/)|[Reddit](http://reddit.com/r/poap)

Thanks to [POAP](https://medium.com/u/6267d2edc9d5?source=post_page-----
d7e8fdfc207d----------------------) & [DeFi
Dude](https://medium.com/u/cf33e7c96ef6?source=post_page-----
d7e8fdfc207d----------------------)

\--

\--

\--

## [More from POAP](/poap?source=post_page-----
6be604961261--------------------------------)

Proof of Attendance Protocol

[Read more from POAP](/poap?source=post_page-----
6be604961261--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Furious Alpha Gym Club](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*BA7_l_-
vdm9SJbjNUC6pHA.png)](/@furiousalphagymclub?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Furious Alpha Gym Club

](/@furiousalphagymclub?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## How to create or import a decentralized wallet on the Metamask.io Web
Extension

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*zL19NMsT3FXWVbiSp6lOhg.png)](/@furiousalphagymclub/how-
to-create-or-import-a-decentralized-wallet-on-the-metamask-io-web-
extension-3dc5f8287199?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Timeswap](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*3yc5K6Ca38FlxzTIQCll4g.png)](/@timeswap?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Timeswap

](/@timeswap?source=post_internal_links---------1----------------------------)

## Timeswap 101: A simplified explainer

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*xWJ4Kg8z3ZQ2qZGkYf3qiw.jpeg)](/@timeswap/timeswap-101-a-simplified-
explainer-fe098a2ec378?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Writers at
VALR](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*KqDxCsTX8VlD-7akUF117Q.png)](/@VALRdotcom?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Writers at VALR

](/@VALRdotcom?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[VALR Publication

](https://medium.com/valr?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Of Whales and Wyckoff

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*pGKupJcFktAIKw7AG0oPkg.png)](/valr/of-
whales-and-wyckoff-eb382672fd1?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Buddy
Doge](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*1lY1MH2DUU_fmcYzyrlsqQ.png)](/@BuddyDoge?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Buddy Doge

](/@BuddyDoge?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Buddy airdrop and referral program

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*9UHiASIn6mIKUuX8O57NGA.png)](/@BuddyDoge/buddy-
airdrop-and-referral-program-7273dcc44a42?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![New Crypt on the
Block](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*P6unIzpDbVOSkMvL20KvIg.jpeg)](/@cryptblock?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[New Crypt on the Block

](/@cryptblock?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Should Facebook Pay Everyone Cryptocurrency for Data?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*rxmfO_560sYsVG8ZqVuNeA.jpeg)](/@cryptblock/should-
facebook-pay-everyone-cryptocurrency-for-
data-d5e851c2d386?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![LeadBest Consulting
Group](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*0cT8ToNJfPr8FG34OIuiKA.jpeg)](/@lead-
best?source=post_internal_links---------5----------------------------)

[LeadBest Consulting Group

](/@lead-best?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[LeadBest-en

](https://medium.com/leadbest-en?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Bloconomic 2018: Discovering Malaysia

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*yEGf0uR9kZVf1eESe17MAQ.png)](/leadbest-
en/bloconomic-2018-discovering-
malaysia-39c2821a8479?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![MemeWars
Game](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*-bsxZSIXyTlGGcmvTPC-2w.png)](/@MemeWars?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[MemeWars Game

](/@MemeWars?source=post_internal_links---------6----------------------------)

## Introducing the MemeWars GamePaper — Learn how to Play, Stake & Earn with
MemeWars

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*b7Tg-
ETi3tzWlb_ZehNHHw.png)](/@MemeWars/introducing-the-memewars-gamepaper-learn-
how-to-play-stake-earn-with-memewars-3804c2891c9b?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[[![Shohel
Alam](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*1RCG2fpj17z1nzUTVqabPA.jpeg)](/@shohelalam?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Shohel Alam

](/@shohelalam?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## The Largest European Social Mobile Poker Operator- KamaGames

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*icbb8P8MWAOgSFPZd4wIow.png)](/@shohelalam/the-
largest-european-social-mobile-poker-operator-
kamagames-a5d184c2f470?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----6be604961261--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
6be604961261--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
6be604961261--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
6be604961261--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
6be604961261--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----6be604961261--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----6be604961261--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fpoap%2Fpoaps-
next-chapter-6be604961261&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Cooper Turley](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*oC9rEq2_c-
LEquy79BfOAQ.jpeg)](/@coopahtroopa-eth)

[

## Cooper Turley

](/@coopahtroopa-eth)

1.1K Followers

Chance favors the connected mind. Focused on building communities by making
crypto cool again.

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F3c1ace0d372a&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fpoap%2Fpoaps-
next-
chapter-6be604961261&newsletterV3=af8b40222d18&newsletterV3Id=3c1ace0d372a&user=Cooper+Turley&userId=af8b40222d18&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Gorilla Shops](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*szZpq-
UU7B9ceHPG.jpg)](/@gorillashops?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------a94a6bb7_d96f_4a68_a2f9_6f8aee910799-------)

[Gorilla Shops

](/@gorillashops?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
a94a6bb7_d96f_4a68_a2f9_6f8aee910799-------)

## Gorilla Shops — a growing community of artists

![The logo of Chara
Kit](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*piCTrteI2m8U4FGmWLmX8w.jpeg)](/@gorillashops/gorilla-
shops-a-growing-community-of-artists-3a14732f7194?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------a94a6bb7_d96f_4a68_a2f9_6f8aee910799-------)

[[![Dev
Protocol](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Z22Yia2enlGSPqtlPQHhYQ.gif)](/@devprotocol-
hq?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
a94a6bb7_d96f_4a68_a2f9_6f8aee910799-------)

[Dev Protocol

](/@devprotocol-hq?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
a94a6bb7_d96f_4a68_a2f9_6f8aee910799-------)

in

[Dev Protocol

](https://medium.com/devprtcl?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------a94a6bb7_d96f_4a68_a2f9_6f8aee910799-------)

## Culture Clubs — sustainable support for creators and communities by
membership NFT

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*iMBdaOYcy1M19j1S7QHR7A.png)](/devprtcl/culture-
clubs-sustainable-support-for-creators-and-communities-by-membership-
nft-e2ef646c1fd0?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
a94a6bb7_d96f_4a68_a2f9_6f8aee910799-------)

[[![Saima
Qureshi](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*PaU0rXhPIiIqHD_ay5BRiw.jpeg)](/@saimasays_?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------a94a6bb7_d96f_4a68_a2f9_6f8aee910799-------)

[Saima Qureshi

](/@saimasays_?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
a94a6bb7_d96f_4a68_a2f9_6f8aee910799-------)

in

[SoundMint

](https://medium.com/soundmint?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------a94a6bb7_d96f_4a68_a2f9_6f8aee910799-------)

## What are Generative Music NFTs? (And Can They Be a Hit Record?)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*XbXG7WiaRdKFk_8Z3yzImQ.png)](/soundmint/what-
are-generative-music-nfts-and-can-they-be-a-hit-
record-d48888ebf1fc?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
a94a6bb7_d96f_4a68_a2f9_6f8aee910799-------)

[[![Adam
Levine](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Jm6SXnD7LfnUzFMFO4YfZA.jpeg)](/@binmaker?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------a94a6bb7_d96f_4a68_a2f9_6f8aee910799-------)

[Adam Levine

](/@binmaker?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
a94a6bb7_d96f_4a68_a2f9_6f8aee910799-------)

in

[DEX Labs

](https://medium.com/dex-labs?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------a94a6bb7_d96f_4a68_a2f9_6f8aee910799-------)

## Introducing Hashes Collections!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*nGfd51Ry01DLHQZcIX3fuw.png)](/dex-
labs/introducing-hashes-collections-ab50adb5f1a9?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------a94a6bb7_d96f_4a68_a2f9_6f8aee910799-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

