#  [ Unenumerated ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/)

An unending variety of topics

## Sunday, August 04, 2013

###  Political relationships

In most political theories and ideologies, there is a preposterous
oversimplification about what kinds of political relationships are desirable,
common, or even possible. Given the [irreduceable complexity of
society](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/02/irreducible-complexity-of-
society.html), any summary of real-world political relationships is by
necessity going to be greatly oversimplified, but most such movements neglect
even very broad and common kinds of political relationships.  So herein, based
on my extensive study of the legal relationships between political players
that have existed in a very wide variety of polities, is a classification
scheme:  
  
Let's define a "polity" as any entity with some coercive powers. Polities can
range in scale from the United Nations to the jail cell at the back of your
local shopping mall.  By studying polities over many years, and borrowing from
previous work on law and political science, I have identified three basic
kinds of legal relationships between polities. The basic legal structure, or
constitution, of a polity can also be characterized by how much and in what
ways it is composed of each kind of relationship. The three basic kinds of
political relationships are:  
  
(1) Delegation: This includes any kind of delegation from a principal to an
agent.  The principal authorizes the agent to act for him, e.g. by making a
contract or treaty with a third party to which the principal will be bound. A
principal can be a boss, a contractee, or voter; the corresponding agents
being employee, contractor, or representative.  We can characterize
principal/agent relationships by [representation
distance](http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1156482), with
each extreme common:  
  
(A) at a very short representation distance is the master/servant (in modern
parlance, employer/employee) relationship. The master gives orders to the
servant who is delegated to carry them out and closely supervised. A military
dictatorship, for example the Roman Empire, is or was dominated by commander-
subordinate relationships.  In such a system, to paraphrase the legal code
compiled for the Emperor Justinian, the emperor's will is law.  
  
(B) at the other extreme, an extremely long representation distance, is the
relationship between millions of voters and the representatives they vote for
in most modern governments.  Voters do not give orders, but rather are treated
as having delegated most their coercive powers to their representatives.
Representatives in modern governments usually further delegate political and
legal power to unelected bureaucracies themselves dominated by type A
(boss/employee) relationships.  
  
(2) Subsidiarity: for example the relationship in the United States between
counties and states, or between the states and the federal government. Often
these combine supremacy clauses (when in conflict the law of the encompassing
jurisdiction trumps that of its subsidiaries) with typically enumerated powers
(the subject matters of the encompassing power is typically limited relative
to that of the subsidiary). We can characterize subsidiarity relationships by
how much and what kinds of coercive power can be exercised by the encompassing
jurisdiction.  
  
In medieval England, the subject matter of the encompassing jurisdiction was
very small, the Crown essentially having jurisdiction only regarding
procedural laws for interactions between subsidiarity jurisdictions (which
like the encompassing Crown were held as property by individuals or
corporations), as well as some war-making powers. Substantive law was almost
entirely in the hands of the encompassed jurisdictions, including the
specialized merchant courts as peers enforced an international standard of
business law, the _lex mercatoria_.  
  
By contrast in the modern U.S., the substantive legal jurisdiction of the
encompassing power has become vast in scope.  Nevertheless one can still find
many examples of fine-grained subsidiarity, down to "stand your ground" laws,
citizen's arrest, and those shopping mall jail cells.  
  
In property law (which once was also procedural law and essential to defining
political relationships), the landlord/tenant relationship is a subsidiarity
relationship. The landlord is generally not the master of the tenant, and
cannot issue the tenant arbitrary commands, but rather their relationship is
governed on both sides by the constraints imposed by the tenancy.  
  
(3) Peer-to-peer: these include any agreements made between polities where
neither is a subsidiary of the other, or a standard law arrived at in
parallel, either through parallel development of precedent (as in the _[lex
mercatoria](http://szabo.best.vwh.net/lex.html)_ and many other bodies of law)
or codification of a standard law (e.g. the Uniform Commercial Code, which is
not federal or national law, but a standard set of laws separately enacted by
50 separate jurisdictions, the states of the United States, as peers).  Peer-
to-peer relationships most commonly involve maintaining distinct sets of laws
adapted to local conditions along with agreements or mutually evolved
practices for resolving conflicts of laws. Conflict-of-laws law itself was
primarily developed through parallel development of judicial precedent,
through courts respecting each other in order to maintain their reputations
for enforcing the rule of law. On a larger scale wars and treaties between
nations are peer-to-peer relationships. In medieval Italy, a wide variety
city-states that were often at war with each other nevertheless also developed
through this process most of the body of modern conflict-of-laws law.  
  
Since political theory developed in universities out of the study of Roman
imperial law, it has been dominated by imputing to polities only one of the
above kinds of relationships -- namely master/servant or commander/subordinate
relationships, or at best delegation in general.  This is especially apparent
in the quixotic search for a "locus of sovereignty", a search that typically
amounts to conspiracy theory in search of a hidden commander-of-all when in
fact far more sophisticated combinations of the above kinds of relationships
are at play.  
  
For further reading:  
[Conflict-of-laws law](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conflict_of_laws)  
[Substantive vs. procedural
law](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/02/basics-procedural-vs-
substantive-law.html)  
[Jurisdiction as
property](http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=936314)
(subsidiarity and peer-to-peer relationships via property law)  
[Representation
distance](http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1156482)  
[Liberty of house](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/09/semaynes-case-
liberty-of-house.html) (common law origins of stand-your-ground laws)

Posted by  [ Nick Szabo ](https://www.blogger.com/profile/16820399856274245684
"author profile") at  [6:50
PM](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/08/political-relationships.html
"permanent link") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon18_email.gif)
](https://www.blogger.com/email-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1866638587108143813 "Email Post") [
![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon18_edit_allbkg.gif)
](https://www.blogger.com/post-
edit.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1866638587108143813&from=pencil "Edit Post")

[Email This](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1866638587108143813&target=email "Email
This")[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1866638587108143813&target=blog
"BlogThis!")[Share to Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1866638587108143813&target=twitter "Share to
Twitter")[Share to Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1866638587108143813&target=facebook "Share to
Facebook")[Share to Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1866638587108143813&target=pinterest "Share to
Pinterest")

#### 3 comments:

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

James said...

    

A possible complementary hypothesis to explain the popularity of analysis in
terms of delegation, at the expense of subsidiarity and especially peer-to-
peer relationships, is that Schelling points and related concepts that solve
the _quis custodiet_ problem were only recently explicated. David Friedman's
[essay](http://www.daviddfriedman.com/Academic/Property/Property.html), _e.g._
, expresses what seemingly should but doesn't appear to be a commonplace idea.  
  
Without this non-obvious concept from game theory, I think it is difficult for
the analyst to explain how conflicts are resolved, except because "sovereign"
decisions are made within a delegation relationship.

     [ 9:38 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/08/political-relationships.html?showComment=1375720721167#c5405585744910281457 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=5405585744910281457 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

nick said...

    

Alas, a bullet or matchete is far more convincing than a Schelling point. What
set of rights form the Schelling point(s) depends very much on who has the
bigger gun and who is more willing to wield it -- which eventually comes to
depend on institutions and in particular on war and procedural law. So 50/50
may be a Schelling point, but given a bit more assymytry in convingnness or
coerciion, so is 90/10, as in the guy with the gun or the keys to heaven gets
10% of all you make every year -- a Schelling point so common it has a name:
"tithe". The Spanish king claimed 20% of all gold found in the New World at
the time of Columbus. Due to smuggling, this number was later reduced to 10%,
then 5% -- all nice Schelling points, each half the previous. The mix between
royal ability to enforce its law, smugglers' ability to evade it, and
Lafferian consideration, and probably many other considerations, rounded to a
nearby Schelling point, determined the tax rate.  
  
Despite Friedman's complaint that tax and tribute is unprincipally "open-
ended", Schelling points involving tax and tribute have been the overwhelming
norm in history. Despite Friedman's notion that we humans object so much to
coercion, nobody knows of even a single person out the tens of billions of
human beings who have lived long lives on this planet who have ever gone
through them without being either the "giving" or "receiving" end of
substantial coercion. The 50/50 split, or to use the far more common phrase
Friedman avoids, "equality under the law", is the product of an advanced legal
system, imposed by coercion -- it is nowhere remotely close to the direct
outcome of a negotiation in the war of all against all.

     [ 1:39 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/08/political-relationships.html?showComment=1375821561545#c162483359293622683 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=162483359293622683 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

sebastian said...

    

_Nevertheless one can still find many examples of fine-grained subsidiarity,
down to "stand your ground" laws, citizen's arrest, and those shopping mall
jail cells. _  
  
...and juries, grand or otherwise, yes?  
  
Fascinating essay, many thanks for sharing. Did not know that about the UCC.
That really opens a can of worms.  
  
So would you say that the states of the U.S. are peers voluntarily acting as
subsidiaries to DC or subsidiaries acting as peers?

     [ 9:05 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/08/political-relationships.html?showComment=1387429516382#c3083531468574755582 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=3083531468574755582 "Delete Comment")

[Post a
Comment](https://www.blogger.com/comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1866638587108143813)

[Newer Post](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/11/european-asian-
divergence-predates.html "Newer Post") [Older
Post](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/07/a-very-underrated-
invention.html "Older Post") [Home](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/)

Subscribe to: [Post Comments
(Atom)](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/feeds/1866638587108143813/comments/default)

## Pages

  * [Home](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/)

## About Me

[ Nick Szabo ](https://www.blogger.com/profile/16820399856274245684)

    "A premier thinker about history, law and economics, and the lessons they have for security." -- Adam Shostack, [Emergent Chaos ](http://www.emergentchaos.com/archives/2005/12/nick_szabo_blog.html)   
  
"Szabo comes out with these essays that leave me in awe." -- [Brian
Dunbar](http://space4commerce.blogspot.com/2011/06/tab-clearing_14.html)  
  
"Reading material that is eclectic, challenging and endlessly fascinating."
\-- Sean McGrath,
[Propylon](http://seanmcgrath.blogspot.com/2004_05_09_seanmcgrath_archive.html)  
  
"Like most blogs worth my attention, this blog is updated only infrequently.
That is because the authors of blogs worth my attention only post when they
have something to say that is true, relevant and not already known by their
audience. Most of the human race does not have the skill to know when an idea
has these three properties. The skill is particularly rare in the fields of
politics and economics, which is why this blog is such a rare and valuable
thing." \-- [Richard Hollerith](http://dl4.jottit.com/)  
  

[View my complete
profile](https://www.blogger.com/profile/16820399856274245684)

## Blog Archive

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2018 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2018/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2018/03/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2017 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/03/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/02/) (2)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2016 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/03/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/02/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2015 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/10/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2014 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/10/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/07/) (1)

  * [ ▼ ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2013 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/11/) (1)
    * [ ▼ ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/08/) (1)
      * [Political relationships](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/08/political-relationships.html)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/07/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2012 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/) (8)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/10/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/08/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/) (4)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2011 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/) (12)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/06/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/05/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/02/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/01/) (4)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2010 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/) (9)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/10/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/09/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/02/) (2)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2009 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/) (29)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/11/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/10/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/09/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/08/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/06/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/05/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/04/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/01/) (3)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2008 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/) (55)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/12/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/10/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/09/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/08/) (9)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/07/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/06/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/05/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/04/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/03/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/02/) (5)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/01/) (3)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2007 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/) (47)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/10/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/09/) (8)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/08/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/07/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/06/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/05/) (8)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/04/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/03/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/02/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/01/) (3)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2006 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/) (130)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/12/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/11/) (7)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/10/) (15)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/09/) (15)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/08/) (20)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/07/) (5)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/06/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/05/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/04/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/03/) (11)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/02/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/01/) (26)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2005 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/) (44)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/12/) (16)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/11/) (5)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/10/) (23)

|  
  
---|---  
  
Simple theme. Powered by [Blogger](https://www.blogger.com).

  *[6:50 PM]: 2013-08-04T18:50:00-07:00

