![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/pre-release-orchid-app-now-available/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/pre-release-orchid-app-now-available/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/pre-release-orchid-app-now-available/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/pre-release-orchid-app-now-available/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/pre-release-orchid-app-now-available/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/pre-release-orchid-app-now-available/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Pre-release Orchid App now
available](/static/88f76f14dec007d3bfbb41fc7486958d/orchid-pre-release-
app.jpeg)

# Pre-release Orchid App now available

Oct 2, 2019  
  

We’ve decided to distribute an early version of the Orchid app ahead of our
network launch. This pre-release version analyzes network traffic on your
phone and does not include VPN service yet (your IP address will not change).

Visit Orchid.com/Download to get the apps now.

One of the unique things about Orchid is its integration of cutting edge
networking technology with cryptocurrency to create an incentivized network.
This pre-release version allows us to test and audit our networking code on
both iOS and Android prior to integrating the token and interfacing with the
Orchid Network. Once we launch our network, we can update the Orchid App to
provide complete VPN service.

![Orchid App Preview](/img/orchid-pre-release-app.jpeg)

In its initial form, this app will only be focused on one thing: analyzing and
reporting the hosts that the data on your device are connecting to. For now,
our app includes the following features:

  * Local VPN service providing network flow analysis
  * Advanced filtering to drill down on the data you care about
  * IP address & port number for both source and destination

It’s important to us that this app is both open source and localized to your
device, meaning no third parties see your data and nothing leaves your phone.
We believe that an Open Source approach embraces the core tenets of
decentralization and provides the greatest opportunity to create a network
capable of delivering the stability, capacity, and security necessary to
provide users with the online experience they desire.

We continue to make progress on the Orchid Network and are finalizing our
Ethereum smart contracts ahead of internal audits. We’re excited to be able to
release our app for iOS and Android now and get software into your hands.

Our mission remains creating a suite of tools that provide privacy and access
to return control and agency back into the hands of internet users. As new
features become available, we’ll keep you updated.

[Download Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/download) now and snag a front row
seat as we ramp up to our network launch.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [VPN](/tag/vpn/)
  * [Ethereum](/tag/ethereum/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Pre-
release%20Orchid%20App%20now%20available%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fpre-
release-orchid-app-now-available%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fpre-
release-orchid-app-now-available%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fpre-
release-orchid-app-now-available%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/starting-today-it-only-costs-1-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

#### Starting today, it only costs $1 to get started with Orchid

](/starting-today-it-only-costs-1-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

Mar 25, 2021

](/what-the-london-hard-fork-means-for-ethereum-and-orchid/)

[

#### What the London hard fork means for Ethereum and Orchid

](/what-the-london-hard-fork-means-for-ethereum-and-orchid/)

Sep 1, 2021

](/rohan-grey-joins-priv8s-expanding-roster-of-speakers/)

[

#### Rohan Grey joins Priv8’s expanding roster of speakers

](/rohan-grey-joins-priv8s-expanding-roster-of-speakers/)

Mar 9, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

