For better experience, please enable JavaScript.

[Multicoin Capital](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * Media
  * More
  * [Contact](/contact/)

![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

  * [English](/2019/09/24/privacy-is-a-feature/)
  * [中文](/zh/2019/09/24/privacy-is-a-feature/)
  * [한국어](/ko/2019/09/24/privacy-is-a-feature/)
  * 日本語

![](data:image/png;base64,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)

### Search posts

dark mode

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

  * [Archives](https://github.com/multicoincapital/crypto-archives)
  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)

[Featured](/blog/category/featured/)

## Privacy Is a Feature, Not a Product

By [Ryan Gentry ](/about#c0a2a383-67bc-501b-9626-e1d4b977dd8a)

September 24, 2019 | 18 minute read

![Copy URL to clipboard
button](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

**Editor 's Note:** This essay was co-authored by [Ryan
Gentry](https://twitter.com/ryanthegentry "Ryan Gentry Twitter") and [Matt
Shapiro](https://twitter.com/mattshap1 "Matt Shapiro Twitter").

**Disclosure:** _Multicoin has established, maintains and enforces written
policies and procedures reasonably designed to identify and effectively manage
conflicts of interest related to its investment activities. Multicoin Capital
abides by a “No Trade Policy” for the assets listed in this report for 3 days
(“No Trade Period”) following its public release. Multicoin Capital is long
BTC-USD and ETH-USD; and short ZEC-BTC and XMR-BTC._

Privacy is a feature of valuable cryptocurrencies, not a product offering in
and of itself. Users should not have to take balance sheet risk (e.g. by
selling some BTC or ETH for ZEC) on less valuable and less secure
cryptocurrencies in order to achieve financial privacy. This essay will argue
that general platforms like Bitcoin and Ethereum already offer sufficient
privacy guarantees for most users to never need niche privacy-focused
blockchains.

Censorship resistance, a core tenet of all three of our [Crypto Mega
Theses](https://multicoin.capital/2019/04/24/multicoin-investment-thesis/
"Crypto Mega Theses"), cannot be achieved without privacy. Therefore privacy
must be a key component of open finance, global state-free money, and Web3.
Within the cryptocurrency ecosystem to date, however, development activity
relating to privacy has mostly taken place on privacy-focused blockchains. The
Bitcoin and Ethereum communities have prioritized solving issues such as
scaling and user experience first.

The developers that value financial privacy above all other features built
protocols that support it natively. Examples include assets like Zcash and
Monero, as well as newer entrants like Grin and Beam. They all make various
tradeoffs in functionality and usability to specifically ensure that privacy
is their core value proposition. But is privacy the right value proposition on
which a standalone chain should be built?

A common thesis amongst crypto investors is that blockchains focused on
privacy should accrue value strictly due to the importance of privacy in
financial transactions. While we fundamentally agree with the latter, we do
not believe there is a causal relationship between the two.

Rather than network participants taking balance sheet risk by choosing
natively private protocols, we expect the most valuable blockchains to win on
a different set of technical tradeoffs, with users and companies finding novel
ways to bring privacy into those networks. Moreover, as we’ve [written
about](https://multicoin.capital/2019/03/14/on-value-capture-at-
layers-1-and-2/ "On Value Capture at Layers 1 and 2"), layer-1 assets should
generally be thought of as money, and layer-1 monies accrue clear network
effects such that only a few chains will persist in the long run. If chains
with non-native privacy offer good-enough privacy for most, chains with native
privacy will fall into irrelevance.

In this essay we will discuss how technical tradeoffs around privacy inhibit
functionality, the inherent balance sheet risk of using blockchains and assets
specialized for privacy, different methods of bringing privacy to more widely
adopted blockchains, what is “private enough,” and how we think about
investments relating to privacy.

### Perfect Privacy

There are four types of private information that can be leaked in a
cryptocurrency transaction: the sender, the receiver, the amount transacted,
and the IP address. If all four are successfully hidden from any 3rd-party
observer, then the transaction is perfectly private.

![Screen Shot 2019-09-24 at 7.36.59
AM](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/5SfVJ2C4NUmNvPSEnHcmqa/2a26d95da3a960b475c98ad517a77b0f/Screen_Shot_2019-09-24_at_7.36.59_AM.png)

As seen in Table 1, privacy is a spectrum. On one end of the spectrum are
transactions which don’t hide any of the above information, e.g. basic Bitcoin
or Ethereum transactions. On the other end of the spectrum are Zcash’s Sapling
transactions, which shield all four of the types of info above (when combined
with an IP-obscuring technology like
[Dandelion](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0156.mediawiki
"Dandelion - Privacy Enhancing Routing") or
[Kovri](https://www.getmonero.org/resources/moneropedia/kovri.html "Kovri")).
Zcash's zk-SNARK circuits allow a sender to transfer a blinded amount of coins
to an anonymous receiver with no identifying information ever being recorded
on a blockchain, nor leaked to the network. They are, in theory, perfect.

Although Zcash is nearly 3 years old, only about
[5%](https://explorer.zcha.in/statistics/values "Zchain") in ZEC in existence
is stored using SNARKs (about half of which uses legacy SNARKs). About 95% of
ZEC are stored in Transparent addresses that offer no privacy. In 2019, crypto
markets have generally rebounded, although ZEC is a notable exception.

![Screen Shot 2019-09-24 at 7.37.55
AM](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/1IgDtTxt0F0BDHWNfR3QbV/3207cb24f98b5bb2b75d3815bdd05a9a/Screen_Shot_2019-09-24_at_7.37.55_AM.png)

While the promise is there, the market has spoken: The privacy offered by
Zcash’s Sapling transactions does not make ZEC valuable.

There are a few reasons why.

First, the core innovation of cryptocurrencies is the notion of
programmatically enforced, easily verifiable scarcity without trusting any
party or group of parties. This feature allows for [social
scalability](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/02/money-blockchains-and-
social-scalability.html "Money, blockchains, and social scalability"), as
people from all cultures and walks of life can verify that their coins are a
guaranteed percentage of a known whole. Unfortunately, perfect privacy by
definition prevents perfect auditability.

In March 2018, Zcash [discovered a bug](https://electriccoin.co/blog/zcash-
counterfeiting-vulnerability-successfully-remediated/ "Zcash Counterfeiting
Vulnerability Successfully Remediated") in their cryptography that could have
allowed for infinite inflation. As the Zcash Foundation
[admitted](https://www.zfnd.org/blog/sprout-disclosure/ "Concerning the Sprout
Vulnerability CVE-2019-7167") themselves, it is impossible to know if any
party has taken advantage until Sprout addresses are deprecated. A user can
verify how many coins were sent into shielded pools, but has no way of knowing
if those coins were arbitrarily inflated by bad actors.

Perfectly private transactions prevent investors from verifying if Zcash is as
scarce as it is supposed to be.

Second, optimizing for privacy in the manner that Zcash has comes with a heavy
cost. Every time a perfectly private transaction is created, the sender must
compute an exact series of computational steps in order to generate the proof
that a miner can verify in zero knowledge (for a refresher on zero-knowledge
proofs refer to [this](https://medium.com/coinmonks/introduction-to-zero-
knowledge-proofs-8e8261b4a48a "Introduction to Zero-Knowledge Proofs")). These
steps are computationally expensive, and the Sprout version was too cumbersome
to allow for widespread adoption. The Zcash team engineered the Sapling
version to be explicitly optimized for coin transfers, eschewing any
additional functionality like Ethereum’s stateful smart contracts, or Monero’s
multi-sig contracts (though these [may be
coming](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/221 "\[WIP\] Draft ZIP: Multisig
#221")).

More efficient perfectly private transactions cost Zcash any programmability.

With the end of the indiscriminate bull market bubble of 2016 and 2017, the
market today prefers less private, but more secure, programmable, and provably
scarce assets like Bitcoin and Ethereum.

Still, it seems unlikely that the future of state-free money will be
completely transparent. Censorship resistance requires some level of financial
privacy. So now, the natural question is: how private is private enough?

### “Lost in the Crowd” Privacy

The Bitcoin and Ethereum communities have both been working hard to bring
native privacy to their chains. Instead of optimizing for perfect privacy,
they are making do with “lost in the crowd” privacy—a strategy popularized by
the Tor Network.

“Lost in the crowd” privacy is about making transactions conform to a set of
rules that make it difficult for an observer to discern the actual sender,
receiver, or amount of a given transaction. The more transactions that abide
by these rules, the larger the crowd gets, and the harder it is for the
observer to deanonymize transactions.

In contrast to perfectly private transactions, this strategy creates security
through obscurity for users, as third-party observers can see that
transactions are occurring, but cannot make any definitive claims about
senders, receivers, or amounts transacted. All claims are probabilistic at
best, and in the vast majority of cases, senders and receivers maintain
plausible deniability.

Bitcoiners are using [CoinJoins](https://en.bitcoinwiki.org/wiki/CoinJoin
"CoinJoin") as their tool of choice to get lost in the crowd.

[First proposed](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=279249.0 "CoinJoin:
Bitcoin privacy for the real world") in 2013 by Greg Maxwell, CoinJoins are
transactions where several different parties combine their multiple single-
input, single-output transactions into a single multiple-input, multiple-
output transaction. This breaks the direct link between sender and receiver,
and if all outputs are the same size, it also obscures who received how much
BTC. Applications for trust-minimized coordination of CoinJoins, like [Wasabi
Wallet](https://wasabiwallet.io/ "Wasabi Wallet") and [Samourai
Wallet](https://samouraiwallet.com/ "Samourai Wallet"), have recently exploded
in popularity.

![Screen Shot 2019-09-24 at 7.38.50
AM](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/7oekpbJUhtiRJmcwblXIAG/21532880c0ffe1955b647073adf7fce9/Screen_Shot_2019-09-24_at_7.38.50_AM.png)

Again, CoinJoins are not perfectly private, as observers can tell which coins
are sent to and from mixers. But this type of growth provides a large enough
crowd such that users seeking privacy can in fact get lost in the crowd.
[Chainalysis](https://www.chainalysis.com/ "Chainalysis"), one of the most
prominent blockchain analytics company that includes the [FBI, DEA, and IRS as
customers](https://techcrunch.com/2018/04/05/benchmark-just-funded-
chainalysis-the-crypto-intelligence-company-that-helped-crack-the-mt-gox-case/
"Benchmark just funded Chainalysis, the crypto intelligence company that
helped crack the Mt. Gox case"), confirmed they are “unable to follow the
trail of coins as they move through mixing services.” **( _1_ )**

Ethereum’s base layer is by default less private than Bitcoin’s, because it
uses an [account-based model](https://blockonomi.com/utxo-vs-account-based-
transaction-models/ "Comparing Bitcoin & Ethereum: UTXO vs Account Based
Transaction Models") instead of a UTXO-based model. This means that a single
address is reused over many different transactions instead of a new address
for each transaction.

However, one advantage that smart contract platforms have over Bitcoin is that
they allow for more advanced transaction types. A smart contract can be
written to provide “lost in the crowd” privacy to all assets sent to it. A
smart contract can even be written to give perfect privacy to all assets sent
to it. **( _2_ )** Today, several examples of these privacy-enabling smart
contracts are live on mainnet, and many more are in development.

Ethereum “mixers” like Argent’s [Hopper](https://github.com/argentlabs/hopper
"Hopper"), [Heiswap](https://heiswap.exchange/ "Heiswap") and
[Tornado](https://tornado.cash/ "Tornado") present versions of “lost in the
crowd” privacy, producing an effect comparable to Bitcoin’s CoinJoins. Here,
users can deposit fixed amounts of a given asset (e.g. 0.1 ETH, or 10 DAI)
into a smart contract, wait until enough users have made similar-sized
deposits to build a large anonymity set, and then withdraw their original
amount to a new address with no link to the original. Because the
denominations must be exact, it will be difficult for these solutions to
attract large deposits, which will limit their ability to scale into
sustainable standalone businesses.

[Aztec Protocol](https://www.aztecprotocol.com/ "Aztec Protocol") has
developed a modular series of smart contracts that allow for confidential
assets, stealth addresses, and zero-value outputs, essentially aiming to build
a “lost in the crowd” privacy pool of assets on Ethereum. Users will need to
send their public assets to a smart contract, which will mint private versions
of those assets into its privacy pool and assign the user a new private
address to transact with. The more assets the privacy pool attracts, the
larger the crowd, offering stronger protections to all participants.

Competition to provide privacy to existing chains is not only a layer-2 add-
on. Smaller public blockchains with strong governance like
[Decred](https://twitter.com/lukebp_/status/1166351032714063873?s=20 "@lukebp_
status") and [Tezos](https://tezosinsider.com/tezos-moves-closer-zk-snarks-
protocol-upgrade/ "Tezos moves closer to zk-SNARKs protocol upgrade") are
adding protocol-native privacy functionality in the near future. Like Bitcoin
and Ethereum, these communities see the value proposition of private
transactions, and are working to offer privacy as a feature to their
communities rather than starting with native financial privacy as a core
product offering. Moreover, the Tezos community is
[stealing](https://multicoin.capital/2018/04/25/good-artists-copy-great-
artists-steal/ "Good Artists Copy. Great Artists Steal.") Zcash’s Sapling work
directly! **( _3_ )**

All this work on public blockchains is attempting to improve upon the current
gold standard for “lost in the crowd” privacy: Monero. Whereas only 5% of ZEC
are shielded, 100% of XMR are transferred according to a set of rules that
create security through obscurity by default.

Monero transactions use three primitives to obscure the sender, receiver, and
amount: [ring signatures](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zHN_B_H_fCs "Monero:
Ring Signatures"), [stealth
addresses](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bWst278J8NA "Stealth Addresses"),
and [Ring Confidential Transactions
(RingCT)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M3AHp9KgTkQ "Monero: Ring
Confidential Transactions"). Ring signatures allow a sender to sign a
transaction with 11 users’ keys, obscuring which key is theirs. Stealth
addresses allow a receiver to use a one-time address for each transaction,
hiding their true public key. RingCT allows for the amounts transacted to be
blinded, but verifiably non-inflationary.

Because all transactions are forced to use these features, all XMR belong to
the same anonymity set and are lost in the same crowd. Despite this, Monero
has not weathered the 2018 bear market much better than Zcash.

![Screen Shot 2019-09-24 at 7.39.34
AM](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/5hE2KliM5U44LrEooG5tPN/4a0d0cb2ec00fb988c0139dc3b2d5da4/Screen_Shot_2019-09-24_at_7.39.34_AM.png)

Though Monero transactions are slightly more flexible than Zcash’s, stateful
smart contracts are still impossible. A recent [research
breakthrough](https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/595 "DLSAG: Non-Interactive Refund
Transactions For Interoperable Payment Channels in Monero") made HTLCs
(enabling layer-2 solutions like the Lightning Network) plausible, though much
engineering will likely be required. Unfortunately for Monero, their developer
community is small and funding is scarce, which means that new feature
development is relatively static.

No matter the base layer chain, “lost in the crowd” privacy can only provide
plausible deniability. The larger the crowd, the more plausible the
deniability.

How private is private enough, now becomes thus: If an adversary wanted to
deanonymize a user’s transactions, how much would they have to spend to do so
if the transactions are in Wasabi Wallet’s Bitcoin anonymity set vs. Aztec’s
Ethereum anonymity set vs. Monero’s anonymity set?

### Cost to De-Anonymize

Earlier this year, [researchers](https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/455.pdf
"FloodXMR: Low-cost transaction flooding attack with Monero’s bulletproof
protocol?") proposed a FloodXMR attack on Monero that leveraged certain
aspects of its ring signature selection process to deanonymize 50% of its
transactions over a year for only $1,700. The Monero community [pushed
back](https://twitter.com/fluffypony/status/1132314161441116162?s=20
"Fluffypony Status") on the cost, saying it was orders of magnitude too low.
They also pushed back on the
[methodology](https://twitter.com/fluffypony/status/1132337178569269249
"Fluffypony Status"), saying it was too simple of an analysis that didn’t
account for any real world conditions like multiple attacks occurring at once,
or price fluctuations.

This section is not aiming to reproduce FloodXMR, but to utilize its
principles to build a general framework for how to think about privacy pools
on non-private chains. The attack is basically structured like this: Every day
a certain amount of transactions take place on Monero. They are all mixed
together such that no one party can know who sent what value to whom, except
for their own. However, because all transactions are public, and addresses are
reused in the ring signature schema, an attacker could take part in a large
number of these transactions themselves.

By doing this, the attacker has dramatically lowered the anonymity set, and
will have a much easier time determining the actual senders and receivers of
each transaction, effectively deanonymizing them. Specifically, according to
the aforementioned report, a “malicious actor which controls 75% of the
transaction output keys generated in a one-year timeframe is able to trace
47.63% of all transaction inputs created in the same time period.” [4]

This attack can be extended to Bitcoin’s CoinJoin privacy pool (and actually,
[already has](https://www.coindesk.com/a-battle-between-bitcoin-wallets-has-
big-implications-for-privacy "A Battle Between Bitcoin Wallets Has Big
Implications for Privacy")), and Ethereum’s Aztec Protocol privacy pool, if
certain assumptions are made. For most of the last 12 months, CoinJoins as a
percent of Bitcoin transaction volume have ranged between 5-10%. [5]

![Screen Shot 2019-09-24 at 7.40.54
AM](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/6uWSQjmDlHi9dA5MxL81R5/22bb72d771a7be1d07a8ca0ad1b92fa8/Screen_Shot_2019-09-24_at_7.40.54_AM.png)

Assuming the average transaction fee, number of privacy-seeking transactions,
and percentage of main chain market capitalization held in a given privacy
pool remains constant then the Cost to Deanonymize (C) becomes:

C = (avg tx fee) x (avg # new txs/day) x 1.25 x (% of market cap in privacy
pool) x 365

Table 2 shows C for BTC’s Wasabi Wallet pool, ETH’s Aztec pool (assuming it
held 5% of ETH’s market cap), and XMR using averages from October 19, 2018 to
today.

![Screen Shot 2019-09-24 at 7.42.00
AM](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/6VEMw0JPr0Gy3PdZKwzyjU/18fbfb67c99052a93358af8a6da32130/Screen_Shot_2019-09-24_at_7.42.00_AM.png)

Another way of looking at the cost to deanonymize is shown in Table 3. Here,
we determine what percentage of market cap would need to be held in Ethereum’s
or Bitcoin’s privacy pool to achieve the same cost to deanonymize as Monero.

![Screen Shot 2019-09-24 at 7.42.49
AM](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/5B7iDlpgjMF7vFa56BpAF5/a4c5a2cad7ec3e3c474a35a571a36439/Screen_Shot_2019-09-24_at_7.42.49_AM.png)

Of course, this high-level analysis disregards many nuances in how an attacker
would approach each chain. It is not meant to offer exact numbers, but to give
a sense within an order of magnitude of how private these “lost in the crowd”
solutions really are. The market should take these numbers with a grain of
salt, but understand that given their significantly larger market caps,
transaction volumes, and transaction fees, privacy pools in Bitcoin and
Ethereum will soon be (if they aren’t already) more expensive to attack than
the entire Monero anonymity set.

Instead of speculating about the future, one way to quantify what the market
thinks about privacy today is to determine which cryptocurrency is most
frequently used by those who need privacy the most: Dark Web users. With
Monero currently assumed to be the most private cryptocurrency, one would
think that it would still reign supreme; however, [CipherTrace
found](https://bravenewcoin.com/insights/darknet-transactions-up-70-with-btc-
still-the-currency-of-choice "Darknet transactions up 70% — with BTC still the
currency of choice") that less than 5% of Dark Web transactions used Monero.
Most, tellingly, used Bitcoin.

### In Conclusion

The raison d'être for cryptocurrencies is to provide a digital method of
transacting value without relying on a trusted third party. The cryptocurrency
that becomes global, state-free money must be censorship-resistant. A
prerequisite to censorship resistance is financial privacy. The fight for
privacy in cryptocurrencies will be an arms race against those that seek to
deanonymize cryptocurrency users, but it must be won if cryptocurrencies are
to succeed.

Unfortunately, as we have described above, the cost of perfectly private
transactions by default, a la Zcash, is too high. It ruins another core value
proposition of cryptocurrencies: The permissionless ability to verify that
throughout the entire history of transactions no double-spends occurred, and
no undue inflation occurred. Without this verification property, no
cryptocurrency can be socially scalable enough to win as a global, state-free
money.

Therefore, the winning cryptocurrency must implement some version of the
imperfect “lost in the crowd” style privacy built on top of a publicly
verifiable ledger. As evidenced by Table 2 and Table 3, the Bitcoin and
Ethereum communities are able to bolt on privacy pools to their natively
public chains, and very quickly make them more expensive to deanonymize than
the entire Monero chain, due to their higher transaction volumes and fees. It
is clear that privacy will be a feature of state-free money, but will not be
the core product.

Privacy theses should be predicated around this understanding. Instead of
investing in base-layer cryptocurrencies that optimize for anonymity in
transacting, managers will start funding companies that offer privacy-as-a-
service on top of Bitcoin or smart contract platforms. Layer-2 solutions will
offer privacy-by-default to their transactors, which may drive large volumes
off of the main chain from those who value privacy in transacting.

Fundamentally, perfect privacy being too expensive to achieve on the base
layer chain is an opportunity that businesses like Wasabi Wallet, Samourai
Wallet, Argent, Heiswap, Tornado, and Aztec Protocol are all seizing. We
believe the dollars invested in Zcash and Monero will start flowing to
businesses like these, or the base-layer cryptocurrencies they are building
on.

* * *

### Appendix

 **( _1_ )** As effective as they are today, CoinJoins are expected to become
cheaper and more effective in 2020 when Bitcoin soft-forks in
[Taproot](https://bitcoinmagazine.com/articles/taproot-coming-what-it-and-how-
it-will-benefit-bitcoin "Taproot Is Coming: What It Is, and How It Will
Benefit Bitcoin"). Today, CoinJoins may obscure the exact sender and receiver,
but each signature is still listed in the transaction, which leaves a
breadcrumb for others to follow. With Taproot, all sender and receiver
signatures can be aggregated into a single signature. By removing the sender
and receiver addresses from the transaction set entirely, Taproot both makes
CoinJoin transactions less expensive (increasing the number of users that will
take advantage of them) and more private.

In parallel, significant development effort is going into layer-2 solutions
like Lightning Network and Liquid Sidechain, which are both private by default
in an attempt to mitigate the main chain’s deficiency. Lightning transactions
all occur off-chain, so that only channel-opens and -closes are visible. Also,
all transactions are onion-routed packets by default, which means that routing
nodes cannot see who the sender or receiver of a transaction is, nor the
amount being transacted. Liquid Sidechain incorporates Confidential
Transactions to blind amounts and asset types, though the sender and receiver
are still visible.

 **( _2_ )** Ernst & Young’s blockchain unit recently released the [Nightfall
protocol](https://github.com/EYBlockchain/nightfall "Nightfall") for private
transactions on Ethereum using zk-snarks, while JPMorgan’s Quorum unit
released the [Anonymous-Zether](https://github.com/jpmorganchase/anonymous-
zether "anonymous-zether") protocol for tracking private balances using zk-
snarks, and Clearmatics released the
[Zeth](https://github.com/clearmatics/zeth "Zeth") library to directly
implement Zcash transactions onto Ethereum. It is clear to all of these
enterprises that before they can use a public blockchain, they must have the
ability to transact privately.

If Zcash-level private transactions on public blockchains like Ethereum seems
too good to be true, that’s because it may very well be the case: these
transactions are expensive.

![Screen Shot 2019-09-24 at 7.43.30
AM](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/6pFSIbBzJHzz13Xl61ocyF/c370736fd5a7d478e32ad578400dd506/Screen_Shot_2019-09-24_at_7.43.30_AM.png)

There are several developments on the horizon that may help change this fact,
though. Like how Schnorr Signatures and Taproot are coming to help Bitcoin’s
privacy,
[EIP-1108](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-1108.md
"EIP-1108") should be implemented in Ethereum’s Fall 2019 [Istanbul hard
fork](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-1679.md
"EIP-1679"). It will drastically reduce the gas costs of elliptic curve
arithmetic precompiles, which are used in all of the previously mentioned
smart contracts. For Aztec specifically, it should [reduce gas costs by
75%](https://medium.com/aztec-protocol/confidential-transactions-have-arrived-
a-dive-into-the-aztec-protocol-a1794c00c009 "Confidential transactions have
arrived, a dive into the AZTEC Protocol").

**( _3_ )** Future blockchains with more advanced virtual machines should be
able to offer near-native performance for perfectly private transactions:
Solana, Eth 2.0, Polkadot, etc. These are further down the road and out of
scope for this essay.

 **( _4_ )** The FloodXMR attack incorrectly asserted that only ring
signatures from the 24 hours before a transaction were reused, when in fact
any ring signature dating back to the September 15, 2017 RingCT hard fork [can
be reused](https://twitter.com/fluffypony/status/1074374562224189445?s=19
"Fluffypony status"). This makes Monero’s anonymity set much larger and much
more expensive to attack, without certain assumptions. 60% of Monero’s
cumulative transaction fees paid since 9/15/17 occurred during the peak of the
bull market mania from 11/1/17-2/1/18. The average month from 9/17 to 10/18
(excluding 11/17-2/18) saw 122k txs, while 11/17-2/18 averaged 182k txs, a 50%
increase. If we assume those extra 50% transactions were speculators
depositing and withdrawing from exchanges, then they are de facto deanonymized
without our adversary needing to pay the fees themselves. That assumption
makes the optimistic total adversarial spend to have been 75% of all
transactions since 9/17 just under $3M. If a constant 25% of monthly volume is
speculatively assumed to be with exchanges, that total adversarial spend drops
to $700k since 9/17.

![Screen Shot 2019-09-24 at 7.44.12
AM](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/7oIdrMkhhyw4m0G5MH2FL4/82f9048e25e1e2329694c148c126b960/Screen_Shot_2019-09-24_at_7.44.12_AM.png)

Tellingly, once the Bulletproof fork went through in October 2018 and dropped
transaction fees by [95%](https://www.coindesk.com/monero-fees-fall-to-almost-
zero-after-bulletproofs-upgrade "Monero Fees Fall to Almost Zero After
‘Bulletproofs’ Upgrade"), the amount an adversary would need to spend to be
75% of the transactions dropped below $10k/month. Well within the budget of
any 3 letter agency, or curious consultancy. This Cost to Deanonymize metric,
therefore, is assuming that enough information has been leaked from 9/17-10/18
that an adversary has already deanonymized 50% of the transactions occurring
during that time, and need only spend enough transaction fees to maintain its
position as 75% of Monero volume. (all tx fee data from
[bitinfocharts.com](https://bitinfocharts.com/monero/ "Bitinfocharts"))

 **( _5_ )** All data pulled from Google BigQuery’s public crypto-bitcoin
database. Methodology described by inline comments in [the
query](https://github.com/ryanthegentry/privacyIsAFeature/blob/master/btcCoinJoin.sql
"privacyIsAFeature").

+ Show More

[Read NextThe World Computer Should Be Logically Centralized](/2019/07/30/the-
world-computer-should-be-logically-centralized/)

![Ryan Gentry
](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/35rSKIYaDhTUyYClttsHoS/78f1ea4be0b01ba453ddd1d100b6b549/Ryan-
Gentry.jpg)

By [Ryan Gentry ](/about#c0a2a383-67bc-501b-9626-e1d4b977dd8a)

[@ryanthegentry](https://twitter.com/ryanthegentry)

More Tags

[Writing](/blog/category/blog/)[Featured](/blog/category/featured/)[Podcasts](/podcasts/)[Videos](/videos/)

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER FOR THE BEST INSIGHTS IN CRYPTO

[![phoenix](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/72L5sEuJXOA7PvWBZM540E/27909d6ff5cda80158665ca43514b11c/phoenix_logo_white.svg)Subscribe](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)

* * *

  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)

  * [Podcasts](/podcasts/)
  * [Videos](/videos/)
  * [Subscribe](https://multicoin.capital/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

### GET IN TOUCH

We’re always looking for compelling ideas, business, and partnership
opportunities. We also enjoy reading your feedback. If you’re submitting a
business proposal, please include a clear description and any resources that
could help us evaluate your opportunity.

[hello@multicoin.capital](mailto:hello@multicoin.capital)

* * *

![Multicoin
Capital](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

## Multicoin Capital

©2017-2021 Multicoin Capital. All Rights Reserved.

