![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/privacy-trends-in-the-midst-of-the-coronavirus-pandemic/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/privacy-trends-in-the-midst-of-the-coronavirus-pandemic/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/privacy-trends-in-the-midst-of-the-coronavirus-pandemic/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/privacy-trends-in-the-midst-of-the-coronavirus-pandemic/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/privacy-trends-in-the-midst-of-the-coronavirus-pandemic/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/privacy-trends-in-the-midst-of-the-coronavirus-pandemic/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Privacy trends in the midst of the coronavirus
pandemic](/static/d75d73ed8d7858920a6f96297e44b21c/Orchid_BlogImage_PrivacyPostCovid.jpg)

# Privacy trends in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic

Sep 3, 2020  
  

The world has now been living with the covid-19 pandemic for months. With some
areas reopening and others reinstating lockdowns and other restrictions, the
coming months seem likely to hold continued uncertainty. The first phase of
the pandemic came with a degree of uniformity: people everywhere were told to
stay home. Now, the world has become a confusing patchwork of regulations and
restrictions. Staged reopenings continue to be [painstakingly rolled
out](https://www.travelandleisure.com/travel-news/europe-coronavirus-reopen-
border) in [some jurisdictions](https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2020/06/when-
will-new-york-reopen-phases-and-full-plan-explained.html), while in other
areas guidelines seem to have been [largely
abandoned](https://www.npr.org/sections/coronavirus-live-
updates/2020/06/08/871829309/india-reopens-public-places-even-as-coronavirus-
cases-rise).

When the pandemic began, Orchid CEO Dr. Steven Waterhouse
[explored](https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/defending-freedom-in-the-time-of-
coronavirus-2020-04-23) the areas where privacy was likely to be challenged as
a result of the measures taken to counteract the virus. Now, months into the
crisis, what is the state of privacy? And what areas should people remain
focused on as the world continues moving forward amidst this unfolding
disaster?

**A patchwork of rules and restrictions**

From the outset, the coronavirus threatened to greatly hamper human movement,
widely regarded as a core freedom alongside speech and protest. For the
moment, this has come to pass; the world today is under a confusing variety of
travel restrictions that render the world a complex series of overlapping
"bubbles."

In July, the European Union Council recommended that its members reopen their
borders to foreign travel -- but [only from select
countries](https://ec.europa.eu/info/live-work-travel-eu/health/coronavirus-
response/travel-and-transportation-during-coronavirus-pandemic/travel-and-eu-
during-pandemic_en) where new cases per capita are below a defined threshold.
Citizens of all other countries are barred from entering. But each country
ultimately retains control over its own borders, and individual member states
have opened to these "third countries" [at differing
times](https://www.schengenvisainfo.com/news/timeline-of-eu-member-states-
reopening-their-borders/) based on each government's assessment of the risk.
Moreover, countries may impose their own particular exemptions and exceptions
from the rules, making uniform E.U.-wide regulations something of a mirage

Across the Atlantic, U.S. states have implemented their own dizzying patchwork
of rules for internal travelers. For instance, people who fly (but not, at
present, those who drive) to New York from any of 22 states must [provide the
state with detailed contact information and self-
quarantine](https://coronavirus.health.ny.gov/covid-19-travel-advisory) for 14
days. Failure to comply can result in a $2,000 fine. Other states require all
incoming travelers [to quarantine for 14
days](https://www.hawaiitourismauthority.org/news/alerts/covid-19-novel-
coronavirus/), with penalties including [jail
time](https://abcnews.go.com/Health/wireStory/18-people-arrested-quarantine-
remain-jailed-hawaii-71289346).

The Australian state of Victoria [has been sealed
off](https://www.cnn.com/2020/07/06/asia/australia-victoria-coronavirus-intl-
hnk/index.html) to inbound and outbound travel, even within the country.
Meanwhile, New Zealand [has declared itself virus-
free](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-52961539) and lifted all covid-
related restrictions -- but [almost no
one](https://www.immigration.govt.nz/about-us/covid-19/border-closures-and-
exceptions) is allowed to enter the country. This raises the prospect of a
nation defeating the virus at the cost of remaining hermetically sealed until
a vaccine is developed.

What do all these rules and restrictions say about the future of privacy? The
fact is that people's freedom of movement is now more limited than at any time
in living memory. And the information and quarantine requirements --
particularly for travel within countries -- adds an element of surveillance
that did not exist before. For the first time, some governments are collecting
detailed information on residents and visitors, and it remains to be seen
whether this will end when the crisis does.

Not all the travel restrictions that were predicted have been borne out: we
have not seen the emergence of so-called "immunity passports." But while
experts have [spoken out
against](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-020-01451-0) the idea, it has
not gone away. Some governments appear to be [laying the
groundwork](https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-52807414) for immunity
passports, and discussion of their possible introduction
[continues](https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2020/06/immunity-passport-
quarantine-work-covid-19/). If recovered patients are shown to develop
immunity, or if a vaccine becomes available to parts of the world population
and not to others, expect this topic to quickly re-emerge.

**The necessity of contact-tracing**

In addition to limiting travel, governments are rolling out contact tracing
systems designed to identify and isolate new cases of covid-19. Evidence
suggests these efforts [can help significantly
limit](https://www.cnbc.com/2020/06/22/coronavirus-contact-tracing-will-save-
lives-if-officials-build-it.html) the virus's spread and enable at least a
partial return to normal activity. But there is a tradeoff: by definition,
contact tracing [entails an
intrusion](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2020/jun/24/businesses-face-
privacy-minefield-contact-tracing-rules-england-campaigners) into people's
personal lives. It is important to understand the nature of this intrusion in
order to minimize its negative effects on privacy.

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

Contact tracing programs can take many forms. Some, such as that currently
being rolled out in New York State, employ teams of human tracers who identify
anyone who has had contact with an infected person. In South Korea, by
contrast, [smartphone apps have been
employed](https://www.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/seouls-radical-experiment-
in-digital-contact-tracing) for the same purpose. No matter the contours of
their local situation, many people around the world face the prospect of a
form of government surveillance as an everyday part of life for the
foreseeable future.

Contact tracing may roll out smoothly in some places and problematically in
others; the devil, as always, is in the details. And any weaknesses in tracing
systems will be a temptation to those looking to defraud, blackmail, and
victimize others. Already, fraudsters
[are](https://news4sanantonio.com/news/local/scammers-use-contact-tracing-to-
get-personal-information-metro-health-reports)
[exploiting](https://news.bloomberglaw.com/health-law-and-business/contact-
tracing-scams-emerge-as-latest-trick-in-covid-fraud-book) contact tracing to
steal sensitive information by sending fake "contact tracing" texts to people
asking for bank information and other sensitive data.

More insidiously, contact tracing risks expanding governments' ability to keep
tabs on their citizens. Amnesty International [has called out several
apps](https://www.amnesty.org/en/latest/news/2020/06/bahrain-kuwait-norway-
contact-tracing-apps-danger-for-privacy/) that continuously monitor people's
location and share that information with central government databases -- an
obvious threat to privacy. It's in response to such overreach that [calls to
limit](https://www.nydailynews.com/opinion/ny-oped-keep-contact-tracing-data-
out-of-law-enforcements-hands-20200625-srkjn4vpmzh47pdqz377s7vw2e-story.html)
public authorities' access to contact tracing data have increased due to fears
over their effect on rights such as speech and assembly.

It's worth remembering that sharing personal information with the government
is not a new concept, and doesn't have to weaken privacy. Most governments
have their residents' addresses, dates of birth, international travel history,
and physical characteristics on file in some form already. Sharing location
and contact data for the purpose of managing the virus does not automatically
portend a diminishment of privacy. And the development of privacy-focused,
[decentralized track-and-trace
apps](https://www.apple.com/covid19/contacttracing) offers hope that there can
be solutions that address the public health crisis without impairing other
social goods.

**How to maintain privacy in a track-and-trace world**

Contact tracing aside, it is well established that crises can be a ratchet for
government control. The instability, uncertainty, and fear they generate can
open a window for governments to permanently expand their power over citizens,
at the expense of civil liberties.

There are many examples of authorities using emergencies as a pretext to
strengthen their power. Egypt, for example, has been living under a declared
state of emergency for 48 of the last 53 years; [opposition parties have been
banned](https://www.cfr.org/backgrounder/egypts-muslim-brotherhood),
[elections canceled](https://www.brookings.edu/research/the-2005-egyptian-
elections-how-free-how-important/), [media censored, and people jailed
indefinitely without
charge](https://www.wsws.org/en/articles/2018/07/23/egyp-j23.html). There is
[ample evidence](https://www.economist.com/international/2020/04/23/would-be-
autocrats-are-using-covid-19-as-an-excuse-to-grab-more-power) that this
playbook is now being followed in many other countries as a result of the
coronavirus, with leaders using the pandemic as a justification to claim broad
executive powers and impose restrictions on political opposition. It is
reasonable to wonder how far this safety-in-exchange-for-freedom pendulum may
swing as we continue to move through the pandemic.

But the current crisis is also increasing scrutiny on government actions --
[sometimes in the very same places](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-
hongkong-security/china-passes-sweeping-hk-security-law-heralding-
authoritarian-era-idUSKBN2412UD) where authorities are making plays to
accumulate power. The surge in protest movements in North America, Asia, and
elsewhere since the spring suggest that the pandemic, and the constant state
of uncertainty and isolation it has produced, is destabilizing the
relationships between governments and the governed.

In any case, there are steps people everywhere can take to ensure their
privacy remains protected. Earlier this year we shared [tips on maintaining
privacy while working from home](/tips-for-protecting-your-privacy-while-
working-from-home/). These best practices, such as using secured wireless
networks, encrypted messaging apps, and privacy tools such as VPNs, will
continue to apply as the world cautiously -- and unevenly -- reopens. Just as
it's important to be aware and to take precautions when we use digital
networks for sensitive tasks, we must take care that in living with this
virus, and doing our part to limit the spread, we are not endangering our own
privacy.

Ultimately, knowledge is power. At Orchid, we have always believed that by
understanding the threats and obstacles that exist for privacy, establishing
good habits, and using the most effective tools, people can live their lives
while minimizing the risk of being monitored, surveilled, or exploited online.
We are confident that, whatever changes may come, this will remain true as the
world moves into the next phase of the coronavirus era.

[Download Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/download) for iOS and Android today.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)
  * [Censorship](/tag/censorship/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Privacy%20trends%20in%20the%20midst%20of%20the%20coronavirus%20pandemic%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fprivacy-
trends-in-the-midst-of-the-coronavirus-pandemic%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fprivacy-
trends-in-the-midst-of-the-coronavirus-pandemic%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fprivacy-
trends-in-the-midst-of-the-coronavirus-pandemic%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/yele-bademosi-joins-priv8s-expanding-roster-of-speakers/)

#### Yele Bademosi joins Priv8’s expanding roster of speakers

](/yele-bademosi-joins-priv8s-expanding-roster-of-speakers/)

Mar 16, 2021

](/marvin-tong-on-battling-the-data-empire-with-privacy-and-decentralization/)

[

#### Marvin Tong on Battling the “Data Empire” with Privacy and
Decentralization

](/marvin-tong-on-battling-the-data-empire-with-privacy-and-decentralization/)

Mar 22, 2021

](/the-global-network-initiatives-jason-pielemeier-on-internet-freedom/)

[

#### The Global Network Initiative’s Jason Pielemeier on Internet Freedom

](/the-global-network-initiatives-jason-pielemeier-on-internet-freedom/)

Jun 29, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

