[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_96,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F888d6174-30a2-4f6a-9b86-34d5de531632_256x256.png)](https://wrongalot.substack.com)

# [Wrong A Lot](https://wrongalot.substack.com)

SubscribeSign in

Share this post

Progress As a Myth / The Thielian Moment

wrongalot.substack.com

Copy link

Twitter

Facebook

Email

# Progress As a Myth / The Thielian Moment

### A Review of A Blank Slate of State

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_90,h_90,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F5ebeb7cd-9271-45e8-a345-ec6c8ef731c2_48x48.png)](https://substack.com/profile/2568384-matti-)

|

[Matti üëæ](https://substack.com/profile/2568384-matti-)

| Jul 14, 2020  
---  
  
[Comment](https://wrongalot.substack.com/p/progress-as-a-myth-the-thielian-
moment/comments)

[Share](javascript:void\(0\))  
  
At this moment in time, in what I would refer to as the "Thielian moment", we
witness a culmination of tech cornucopia narrative reckoning with the fact
that progress is neither unconditional nor real.

Some people in crypto (and tech) expect too much of the technology. They also
might have a skewed perception of progress. An opportunity to organize my
thoughts around this topic presented itself when I found myself writing a
review of Chris Burniske's essay [A Blank Slate of
State](https://unchainedpodcast.com/chris-burniske-a-blank-slate-of-state/).

This essay paints a darker version of the future in comparison to Burniske. I
think that the desired Blank Slate of State is a pipe dream. Lumping
technological advancement with a general notion of progress is treacherous.

 _[Progress is a beguiling call to
death](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JQg8Xll9NIE) and we're addicted to the
sweet pitch of its siren_.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F0d0d82d5-ec6a-4e12-ab5a-5abdb071fc98_1400x860.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F0d0d82d5-ec6a-4e12-ab5a-5abdb071fc98_1400x860.png)

To clarify; **I do believe** in the notion of technological advancement, but
would side with Thelian _Great Stagnation_ thesis that not much has happened
since the seventies (except for the computers), rather than buying into [the
accelerationists‚Äô narrative of exponential
progress](https://waitbutwhy.com/2015/01/artificial-intelligence-
revolution-1.html) (pictured above).

The notion of progress with which **I do not agree** with is the evolution of
humans towards something better or greater (unfortunately). I go as far as The
Enlightenment to elaborate on this point.

Burniske describes markets as " _a powerful technology that is meant to serve
society‚Äôs virtues, but markets are dangerous as a virtue system in-and-of
themselves"._ He believes that markets dictate our virtues, calling for
designing blockchain protocols that embed better virtue systems [0].

The actual _blank slate of state_ refers to a unique opportunity for " _a new
way to organize humans, to orchestrate the movement of value according to our
virtues...a potential fresh start._ "

Burniske is worried that the crypto community fails in building a fairer,
effective and generative system - the values he personally thinks should be
reflected in the new market protocol. He writes that _investors and founders
"claim too much of a network‚Äôs capital for themselves, they are taking the
lessons of an unfair past and projecting them into the future_."

My worry is that this essay reflects a flawed belief of a broader set of
influential entities in crypto (and _tech_ ). This is why I have taken to
address what I consider to be a dangerous line of thought.

First, I would like to address two deeply problematic assumptions that
Burniske makes. These are foundational mistakes in his further evaluation. One
is the notion of progress and the other is conflating market and virtues.

Second, I will present an alternative take on how crypto becomes valuable and
what I think it can actually deliver in the future.

###  **Progress and The Cornucopians**

In [True Detective](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIzS--c-PH8) series there
is a scene where a father-in-law of one of the main characters complains about
the young people, asking the younger counterpart Marty:

 _"So you're telling me the world is not getting worse?"_

Marty replies:

 _"You know, throughout history, I bet every old man probably said the same
thing. And old men die. And the world keeps spinning."_

This moment is an elaborate version of the " _Ok boomer_ " meme. The youth is
vindicated in this great comeback line. The old man's point has been
invalidated.

Joe Rogan has his own version of "Ok boomer" rebuttal, often remarking that
life on earth has never been better before. This reminds me of a belief "
_that all history is a halting and imperfect preparation for the magnificent
era of which we are the salt and summit_ "[1].

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fb2e20e21-d342-40e9-9e4b-6ab6683f84e4_320x200.gif)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fb2e20e21-d342-40e9-9e4b-6ab6683f84e4_320x200.gif)

People make the same mistake both ways. What if I _redpilled_ you that the
world is not getting better or worse? " _The motto of history should run:
Eadem, sed aliter._ " [2] The more things change, the more they remain the
same and

> _...we shall leave the world as foolish and wicked as we found it._ [3]

Progress, as described by some technologists (and some economists), is mostly
a false idea. This belief is built on two axioms:

  1. We can increasingly explain more of the world 

  2. The world is getting better 

Nassim Taleb describes what he calls a modern disease; " _the pathology of
thinking that the world in which we live is more understandable, more
explainable, and therefore more predictable than it actually is"._

At all times men throughout history believed that they can explain the world.
Every time they have been proven wrong in the future. Why are we so arrogant
that we think we are so different that _NOW_ we can solve one the oldest
problems in human history?

We like to tell stories and create narratives. It is a human instinct to "
_give meaning to all manner of shapes; we detect human figures in inkblots_ "
[4]. Our mind recognizes a pattern, abstracts a made-up metric, and creates a
narrative. Some narratives are better, have better storytellers and last
longer than others.

Think of GDP. One can interpret [GDP](https://medium.com/@sachameyers/the-
growth-illusion-8f2312c4a28f) as a metric abstracted from a human observed
pattern turned into a narrative of never ending growth [5]. The pattern
eventually does not hold and must be tinkered with to last a little longer
[6]. The metric of GDP becomes a procrustean bed that is designed to play into
the growth narrative.

Steve Pinker is an avid advocate of the idea of the ever-improving world. He
has tried to demonstrate that there has been less violence in modern times.
Unfortunately, this [has been debunked as an ignorance of
statistics](https://www.fooledbyrandomness.com/violencenobelsymposium.pdf)
[7]:

>  _There is no statistical basis to claim that ‚Äútimes are different‚Äù owing to
> the long inter-arrivaltimes between conflicts; there is no basis to discuss
> any ‚Äútrend‚Äù, and no scientific basis for narratives about change in risk._

John Gray has devoted volumes [disputing the modern notion of
progress](https://fs.blog/2017/02/human-progress-illusion/). He attacks the
claim that accumulation of knowledge and technological advance set us free. On
the contrary, Gray claims, it traps us as we have to organize ourselves around
this newly found idol ([artificial
outellignec](https://wrongalot.substack.com/p/ao)e flashback).

Burniske's essay is a play at the Hegelian idea of the end of history, a
utopian end-game of civilization. Also, it paints a Pinkerian picture of ever-
improving human condition and the undeniable road to this utopia.

As Peter Theil would say; the problem is that if you're so sure about the
inevitability of your destination, the exact plans on how to get there become
an obscurity.

The world cannot be explained by extreme pessimism of the old man's cranky
complaint about the world going to hell. Nor can it be explained by an extreme
optimism depicted in the _exponential progress_ narrative.

Both extreme optimism and pessimism lead to passivity. We should think of the
world in a state of _becoming_ \- not getting worse or better.

###  **Markets and Virtues**

The road to hell is paved with good intentions. This cliche teaches us to
separate an intention from the outcome. The socialist thinkers meant well.
Sometimes good intentions of virtuous people lead to catastrophes.

Burniske describes markets as " _a powerful technology that is meant to serve
society‚Äôs virtues, but markets are dangerous as a virtue system in-and-of
themselves"._ He believes that markets deploy our virtues at scale, calling
for designing blockchain protocols that embed better virtue systems.

It is a fundamental error to think of markets as a mechanism that portrays the
world as it ought to be [8]. Markets merely portray the world as it is,
communicating information of particular circumstances of time and place via
the compiling mechanism of price signals [9].

Markets are the best means of reliable delivering information about "what is".
Virtues and virtue systems such as religion are best at describing what "ought
to be". If the market does not reflect certain virtues it is because these are
absent (in aggregate, not individually).

The idea that we can encode virtues into the market is absurd as virtues do
not scale [10]. One cannot ignore the scale transformation property, the wedge
between intentions and outcome, as " _one does not necessarily build a
virtuous political system with virtuous agents. Likewise a collection of
malicious agents can produce a virtuous system_ " [11].

Say that the virtues an average German citizen of 1930s and 40s aspired to
were hard work and patriotism. I sincerely doubt that an average German
citizen of the time would voluntarily sign off on a mass murder. The scale
transformation property of such virtues on the individual level appointed a
sociopathic and egomaniacal leadership prone to mass murder.

We should remain cautious when discussing virtues because _"that which men
call virtue is usually no more than a phantom formed by our passions, to which
one gives an honest name in order to do with impunity whatever one wishes"_
[12] _._

Burniske thinks of markets as a reflection of our own design, therefore; he
wants us to be careful with the design. To be more specific; he would argue
that [destruction of natural capital should be accounted
for](https://twitter.com/cburniske/status/1205204887639904261?s=20). A
decision to encode "cost of nature" into the universal accounting system would
come from a place of virtues.

I do not consider the market a product of human design but rather a natural
information compiler. Markets are a complex consensus mechanism that does not
respond well to human intervention because it introduces subjectivity.
Subjectivity cannot be computed. Therefore; I do not believe we can change the
nature of the market.

Markets are amoral. One has to feed them numbers. Think of markets as a black
box software protocol to which repo we have lost the access key. Somehow we
have to keep using it without fully understanding it.

Virtues are a function of morality that cannot be reduced to numbers. One can
try to fight the market with applied morality but this tends to backfire due
to the scale transformation property. This is a mere reflection on the
traditional notion of separating the intention and the outcome.

### **Is Crypto Programming People?**

Burniske's idea that _"technology enables us to program behaviors"_ could be
misleading. Technology enables a modification of agent's behavior. A claim
that we could program behaviours is a hyperbole.

Technology enables _social scalability_ by moving information from mind to a
computer chip and directly improve matchmaking abilities through Uber,
Facebook or AirBnb and minimizes trust requirements with programmable value
[13]. But trust minimization or improved discoverability do not guarantee the
behavior of agents entirely.

Bitcoin and Ethereum enabled monetary and financial coordination at scale by
encoding incentives into the protocol. It does not predict the behavior of
agents entirely. Only in certain aspects we have achieved modification,
therefore; we have to be careful about implying that we can _program (and
predict) behavior_ of agents entirely.

With technology we can achieve certain modifications in agents' behavior,
thereby reducing a particular trust uncertainty. By reducing trust uncertainty
we reduce certain market friction. But we have not mastered human nature.
Here, the technologists' utopia converges on the political utopia (e.g.
communism).

In my view Burniske's essay displays a desire for a predictable world where
behavior can be controlled. This is further projected onto expectations about
cryptoassets and their potential.

###  **Programmable Value**

Programmable moneys and the programmable internet of value is a huge step
forward in terms of social scalability. I do not contest that. By programming
attributes of virtual assets we do achieve a modification in human behavior.

I have written about [programmable money as a form of artificial
outelligence](https://wrongalot.substack.com/p/ao), in which I do acknowledge
the element of programming behavior of agents participating in the system.

However, I would not suggest that human behavior is predictable when
confronted with programmable money. What can be predicted is that the behavior
will be altered in some way.

We have successfully reduced complexity of the world to a game. But still, the
actions of agents cannot be precisely predicted, although some aspects of
behavior can be game-theoretically guaranteed.

Programmable value is a leap forward. Society will gradually come to harness
the property of being able to organize itself around hard(coded) systems. I
personally believe that we are on [a (bumpy) road to non-discretionary
money](https://insights.deribit.com/market-research/the-future-of-money-could-
be-discretionary/) and that, perhaps, at some point it the existence of these
assets ensure continuity of civilization instead of disintegration into chaos.  

###  **The World Will Not Change Much / Crypto Is Here to Stay**

In alignment with the " _progress as a myth_ " thesis, one should not expect
that much will change with the advent of programmable value. What will change
is that value will be embedded into the digital - [the world of mathematical
logic it actually belongs to](https://bitcast.fm/ZBD872) [14].

A world from which we had to abstract it for a couple of thousands years and
import it into the physical; shells, coins, gold and other SoV. This import is
prone to manipulation. Thus, one could expect that [we will move from the
world of reserve currencies to a fluid programmable
value](https://twitter.com/Fiskantes/status/1244465721146593281?s=20),
embedding value back to the logical world of zeros and ones.

But as I have discussed above, fairness and goodness cannot be reduced to
numbers. Markets do not deal with abstracts. Can blockchains deal with them?

Burniske would say that we can encode e.g. the cost of nature into the
accounting layer. This is possible. However, I am not sure if it is desirable.
Blockchain's accounting layer does not only rely on trust-minimization but
also on subjectivity-minimization  [15]. Cost of nature, may not be
universally accepted (think developing world), although we might be able to
agree that it would be universally a good thing.

[Burniske
explains](https://twitter.com/cburniske/status/1205204887639904261?s=20) that
we could use blockchains to involve more people in capital accrual and
governance - a more fair distribution. But what is fair? Is it a more
egalitarian distribution? Does it mean more rich people or less poor people?
Does it mean to embrace downward mobility for the rich or upward mobility for
the poor?

The side-effect of a generously expanding monetary base is that it allows
capital to accrue more capital with labor falling behind. It is a feature of
such a system not a bug. Unleashing blockchains within such a system is more
likely to do the opposite and thus let the power law dominate.

One cannot discount the possibility of programmable money contributing to even
more pronounced long tail distribution [16]. I failed to understand what
Burniske's _fair_ means. Is manifestation of power law unfair? Is inequity
unfair? - Certainly under particular moral axioms.

I would like to believe that blockchains could allow more people to access
more markets in more ways and if Burniske means "more of equality of
opportunity‚Äù I agree. But it is worth considering whether more of equality in
opportunity can lead to greater inequality in outcome.

Still, as the system remains anchored to discretionary value, it will probably
prop up the existing hierarchy of capital. What we can hope for is that
eventually the interface to the market becoming purer.

###  **Revanchists and Progressives**

There are still things to discover and novelty machines to build. More
importantly, technologies could be used to implement redundancies instead of
mere over-optimization of systems. [Nic Carter
argues](https://twitter.com/nic__carter/status/1262383893543620614?s=20) that
Bitcoin is a revanchist/restorative technology not a progressive one.

[![Twitter avatar for
@nic__carter](https://substackcdn.com/image/twitter_name/w_36/nic__carter.jpg)nic
carter @nic__carterBitcoin is a high-tech implementation of 19th century
economic ideas. It's a restorative, not progressive
technology.](https://twitter.com/nic__carter/status/1262383893543620614?s=20)

[May 18th 2020

95 Retweets507
Likes](https://twitter.com/nic__carter/status/1262383893543620614?s=20)

This led me to frame Ethereum as a progressive asset in contrast to Bitcoin.
It should be of no surprise that if this framing reflects the reality, the
advocates of these two respective technologies (and assets) are inevitably
clashing.

Tribalism in crypto is not necessarily a bad thing, and lamenting the
conflicts between these tribes is a symptom of fundamental misunderstanding of
either what these trends represent, or the function of tribalism.

Both of these communities agree that the status quo is unacceptable but their
approach to overcoming it is vastly different. One argues for "building the
future", while the other calls for a revision of the past. One is
fundamentally optimistic, the other seems fundamentally pessimistic about the
future.

The philosophies of these groups are naturally rivalrous yet their success is
not mutually exclusive (at least not in the short-term). The usefulness of
such compartmentalization is also limited in the long-run, but comes in handy
when telling the motives of the tribes apart.

Although Burniske has since course-corrected his stance on the topic, he has
outrightly [disapproved of tribalism in
crypto](https://twitter.com/cburniske/status/1199465254511611904?s=20) in the
past [17]. Eric Weinstein points out that the negative/positive notion of
tribalism [is context
dependent](https://twitter.com/EricRWeinstein/status/1088644373615542272?s=20).

Adaptive tribalism is an evolutionary way to _bootstrap things_ and is
comparable to the notion of
[localism](https://www.academia.edu/38433249/Principia_Politica). Tribalism is
not bad. Tribalism is human. Therefore; we are observing fluctuations in
tribalism throughout the history. Becoming less or more tribal is not a sign
of progress.

Humans will remain tribal. Does tribalism in crypto extend itself beyond its
usefulness? It may be. But it demonstrates how some things stay the same the
more they change. The future may look like the 60s with a design overhaul
(hopefully with similar attitudes of doing not talking).

###  **Humans Are Not Machines, Machines Are Not Humans /[Beyond
Rationality](https://bitcast.fm/KYC643)**

Chris Burniske is probably right in that in programmable assets we may
eventually find a better way to coordinate and distribute value between
participants. But the idea that the future is exponential and more fair is
_less right._ As stated before, the future will mostly resemble the
_imperfect_ past.

It seems that in most technological and political visions achieving a fairer
system is predicated on abandoning much of the human agency [18]. Most
fairness-oriented belief systems are predicated on centralization doctrine.
The technologists' version of this is a reference to the Artificial General
Intelligence (AGI).

Some people long for machines with human features (AGI), while desiring that
they themselves were more like a machine - a system of predictable
interactions. They project onto machines the desire to have human properties,
while themselves desiring to have properties of a machine.

In their version of the future, humans become a machine; a system of
predictable interactions that are under control or can be fixed by mechanical
intervention.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fb8493dd4-cf0d-472d-8f51-42bf98b7e23c_540x225.gif)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fb8493dd4-cf0d-472d-8f51-42bf98b7e23c_540x225.gif)

Our pop-culture fantasizes about AGI taking over the human race, attaching the
unpredictability of human agency to, by definition, a predictable machine. We
make movies about AI with feelings. Some of the technologists' visions
resemble Nietzsche's _last men_.

We project once desirable human traits on the machine. This is an act of
humans who are afraid of themselves. They fear confronting their true violent
inner selves. But why would humans be afraid of themselves?

This could go as far as the birth of the Enlightenment, which is embodied in a
reference to liberalism in Burniske's essay:

>  _Liberalism unlocked the rational individual in free markets, the
> ideological key that released society from feudalism. A good thing._

Indeed a good thing. But there were costs attached to this liberation.

In _[Straussian
Moment](https://www.evernote.com/shard/s542/client/snv?noteGuid=46c636b6-b404-45df-
ab0a-1f84c6fdc8c2&noteKey=7c94233539b8258d72b395a063f3c589&sn=https://www.evernote.com/shard/s542/sh/46c636b6-b404-45df-
ab0a-1f84c6fdc8c2/7c94233539b8258d72b395a063f3c589&title=That+Essay\)Thiel)_ ,
Peter Thiel describes how Enlightenment had become a new platform for
stability after years of religious warfare in Europe as

> _the enlightenment undertook a major strategic retreat...The question of
> human nature was abandoned because it is too perilous a question to
> debate._.. _Science of economics and the practice of capitalism filled the
> vacuum._

Whitewashing violence has been a founding myth of Enlightenment, strategically
ruling out the questions of human nature, reducing human to homo economicus,
and his desires; to _desire to power_ [19]. Is it a coincidence that Burniske
has chosen a reference to a _Blank Slate -_ the very origin of the denial of
human nature?

One could think of Enlightenment as a cheat code. Cheat codes can take out the
thrill and fun out of the game, but they help you win comfortably. In a world
where the "thrill and fun" is actual suffering and death, resorting to a cheat
code is understandable. But one is not playing the real game anymore.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F50dc908a-e812-4f84-b572-720e87e081c9_1280x720.jpeg)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F50dc908a-e812-4f84-b572-720e87e081c9_1280x720.jpeg)

The cheat code gives us the illusion that we have mastered the game and that
we are in control. The more control we try to exert on the system the more we
deny human nature. It scares us. And rightly so.

Different belief systems have different coping mechanisms to face the fear.
Progressives try to control the system, libertarians try to control what is
theirs. The desire for control in any sense stems from the actual recognition
of human nature - there is something to be feared.

###  **The Return of The State**

In the beginning I mentioned the "Thielian moment"; a culmination of tech
cornucopia narrative reckoning with the fact that progress is neither
unconditional nor real. In recent decades we have been dressing up numbers as
progress and such quantification (and over-financialization [20]) distorts the
reality in an attempt to mislead us a little longer.

The strategy we have devised can be summarized as: ****_**I reject the
reality, I create my own** , _with an example below:

[![Twitter avatar for
@paulkrugman](https://substackcdn.com/image/twitter_name/w_36/paulkrugman.jpg)Paul
Krugman @paulkrugmanRepeat after me: debt is money we owe to ourselves. It
doesn't make the nation as a whole poorer.

Adam Tooze @adam_tooze

Dramatic charts from @ChrisGiles_ on surge in UK gov debts. But puzzled why he
thinks this detracts from ‚Äúnation‚Äôs wealth‚Äù. Obviously, COVID-driven collapse
in GDP subtracts from monetary income. But gov debt shows up as asset in
balance sheet. H/t @GeneralTheorist
https://t.co/5pqEzyqE1P](https://twitter.com/paulkrugman/status/1263803278099451911?s=20)

[May 22nd 2020

1,249 Retweets3,897
Likes](https://twitter.com/paulkrugman/status/1263803278099451911?s=20)

According to Thiel, this is the hallmark of a great shift to inward-facing
culture; psychedelics, video games, VR, artificial elements of zen etc.
Perhaps the pendulum had swung from interior to exterior since the
Enlightenment and sometime in the 1970s it started swinging back.

[![Twitter avatar for
@mattigags](https://substackcdn.com/image/twitter_name/w_36/mattigags.jpg)Matti
üëæ @mattigags'The mind is its own place, and in itself can make a heaven of
hell, a hell of heaven.' - John Milton
![Image](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_600,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fcdn.substack.com%2Fimage%2Fupload%2Fw_728%2Cc_limit%2Fl_twitter_play_button_rvaygk%2Cw_120%2Fdsd5kfscdlkwfuialsh3)](https://twitter.com/mattigags/status/1272428700773027840?s=20)

[June 15th 2020

1 Like](https://twitter.com/mattigags/status/1272428700773027840?s=20)

He states this clearly; " _No representation of reality ever is the same as
reality_... _The price of abandoning oneself to such an artificial
representation is always too high",_ and cites Schmitt:

>  _Men who allow themselves to be deceived by him see only the fabulous
> effect, nature seems to be overcome, the age of security dawns; everything
> has been taken care of, a clever foresight and planning replace Providence.
> _

Hence the ‚ÄúThelian moment‚Äù.

We have entered a somewhat blank state of our existence, submitting to either
utopian or dystopian visions of the future. Either way, we seek refuge outside
of human agency in the arms of the almighty _state_ \- whether it is a
technology or the government.

Is it really that different to look for _virtues_ in _state_ -machines or in
the actual _state_ backed by monopoly on violence? State and technology does
not contain virtues.

But they contain violence; in both senses of the word.

 _I very much appreciate[Chris Burniske's](https://twitter.com/cburniske)
input, helping me to better understand his thoughts around this topic.
Although [@fiskantes](https://twitter.com/Fiskantes) accused me of sophistry I
believe that this is a result of a displaced unhealthy attachment to
videogames. I still thank him for his valuable inputs and trolling as he is
gradually becoming my personal editor. Furthermore I'd like to acknowledge
thoughtful feedback from [@thegostep](https://twitter.com/thegostep) and
[@allenf32](https://twitter.com/allenf32) ._

####  _ **References & Notes**_

[0] [@allenf32](https://twitter.com/allenf32) understood Burniske's point as ‚Äú
_when markets work super well we focus too much on their outputs and not their
throughputs, a kind of implicit Goodhart's law_ ‚Äù. This begins as a seemingly
valid criticism that later becomes misunderstood when Burniske proposes that
we need a market mechanisms which have outputs that we as a society can
approve of more. But how do we agree which virtues to approve?

[1] Will Durant (paraphrasing Schopenhauer) in _The Story of Philosophy_

[2] Arthur Schopenhauer

[3] _The Wisdom of Life_ by Arthur Schopenhauer

[4] Nassim Taleb; _Fooled by Randomness_

[5] It is relatively easy to lie about the rate of technological progress as
you take liberty with interpretation of data.

[6] A reference to [Boskin
Commission](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boskin_Commission). In mid-90s
jiggling with inflation numbers led to reduction in inflation rate by 1.1%;
thereby saving trillion of USD over a decade and balance the budget.

<https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/1997/04/how-to-rewrite-economic-
history/376830/>

[7] [@fiskantes](https://twitter.com/Fiskantes) proposed not to involve
statistics but a simple skin-in-the-game heuristics; if you had choice _1\.
"Be born today"_ 2\. _"Be born at a random time in the past 10k years" ._
Which one would you choose? This is a valid proposition, however, to do this
right one should do this survey in every time period. If one chooses present
times it could be because that is all one knows (a hypothetical present-bias)
. My goal was to cast doubt on Pinkerian hypothesis which is based on
statistics by referring to a study that suggests employment of "bad
statistics" on Pinker's side.  

[8] Eliezer Yudkowsky in Inadequate Equilibria: " _People have an innate
understanding of ‚Äòtrue‚Äô in the sense of a map that reflects the territory, and
they can imagine processes that produce good maps‚Ä¶ People understand that
efficient prices means that people ought to be paid $9/h or that by saying
‚Äòefficient‚Äô this econ/math machine is right about $9/h being good for society,
the price justly reflecting someone‚Äôs effort...‚Äòthey hear you agreeing with
the pitiless machine‚Äôs judgement..._ "

[9] Hayek in _[The Use of Knowledge in Society](https://fee.org/articles/the-
use-of-knowledge-in-society/)_ : ‚Äò _We make constant use of formulas, symbols,
and rules whose meaning we do not understand and through the use of which we
avail ourselves of the assistance of knowledge which individually we do not
possess.‚Äô_

[10] Taleb in _[Principia
Politica](https://www.academia.edu/38433249/Principia_Politica)_ , Principle
VI: " _Group morality is not the sum of individual morality. Never make moral
inferences about an aggregate or a group from attributes of individual members
and vice versa. Under adequate legal and institutional structure,the
intentions and morality of individual agents does not aggregate to groups. And
the reverse: attributes of groups do not map to those of agents."_

[11] Nassim Taleb, _[Principia
Politica](https://www.academia.edu/38433249/Principia_Politica)_

[12] La Rochefoucauld

[13] Nick Szabo's _[Social
Scalability](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/02/money-blockchains-and-
social-scalability.html)_

[14] As [per Eric Weinstein](https://bitcast.fm/ZBD872) we can use digital and
logical interchangeably. I can speculate here that value is an organic part of
the logical world (that is; the digital, limited to the zeros and ones). Since
in the past we had no means of recording things in the digital world, we had
to import value into the physical world; shells, coins, gold and other SoV.
Such import is imperfect and prone to manipulation. Programmable money embeds
value back to the logical world.

[15] This would lead us down the rabbit hole of Blockchain governance
(governance-minimization vs. maximization).

[16] We have witnessed that the IT revolution created a lot of wealth with
products beyond the world of atoms (software). The previous revolutions (e.g.
oil) the goods and services were still subject to the physical realm [with
value capture enabled
locally](https://twitter.com/mattigags/status/1260486505572765696). The
distribution of wealth in a borderless digital world is a subject to power
law. Local extraction of value is limited.

[17] To clarify; Chris Burniske no longer agrees with his past tweet and is ok
with the interpretation of tribalism presented in this essay, "alas, Tweets
are static."

[18] In what way is China and Silicon Valley similar? - They do not believe
humans can decide for themselves.

[19] Peter Thiel in _[Straussian
Moment](https://www.evernote.com/shard/s542/client/snv?noteGuid=46c636b6-b404-45df-
ab0a-1f84c6fdc8c2&noteKey=7c94233539b8258d72b395a063f3c589&sn=https://www.evernote.com/shard/s542/sh/46c636b6-b404-45df-
ab0a-1f84c6fdc8c2/7c94233539b8258d72b395a063f3c589&title=That+Essay\)Thiel)_

[20] Thiel argues that " _finance epitomizes indefinite thinking because it‚Äôs
the only way to make money when you have no idea how to create wealth_ " (or
build the future). Maybe we‚Äôre not attracted to finance but there is not much
left to do because going further requires us to revisit the game beyond the
cheat code? Finance has the ability to stay divorced from reality for a very
long time, syncing only on occasions in the moments of sanity, which occur
when economic bubbles burst.

[CommentComment](https://wrongalot.substack.com/p/progress-as-a-myth-the-
thielian-moment/comments)

[ShareShare](javascript:void\(0\))

![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_66,h_66,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fsubstack.com%2Fimg%2Favatars%2Flogged-
out.png)

## Create your profile

Your nameYour bio Subscribe to the newsletter

0 subscriptions will be displayed on your profile (edit)

Skip for now

Save & Post Comment

## Only paid subscribers can comment on this post

[Already a paid subscriber? **Sign in**](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fprogress-as-a-myth-the-thielian-
moment&for_pub=wrongalot&change_user=false)

#### Check your email

For your security, we need to re-authenticate you.

Click the link we sent to , or [click here to sign
in](https://substack.com/sign-in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fprogress-as-a-myth-the-
thielian-moment&for_pub=wrongalot&with_password=true).

TopNewCommunity[](javascript:void\(0\))

No posts

# Ready for more?

 **Subscribe**

¬© 2022 Matti üëæ

[Privacy](https://wrongalot.substack.com/privacy) ‚àô [Terms](/tos) ‚àô
[Collection notice](https://substack.com/ccpa#personal-data-collected)

[ Publish on
Substack](https://substack.com/signup?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=web&utm_content=footer)[
Get the app](https://substack.com/app/app-store-redirect?utm_campaign=app-
marketing&utm_content=web-footer-button)

[Substack](https://substack.com) is the home for great writing

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please [turn on
JavaScript](https://enable-javascript.com/) or unblock scripts

