Toggle Navigation [ [![Concourse Open](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)
](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)

  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ConcourseOpen "Twitter")
  * [Discord](https://discord.gg/mzDxADE "Discord")
  * [Projects](https://concourseopen.com "Projects")

## Settle Portfolio

Modular portfolio management supporting Digital Asset and Crypto Derivatives.

Open App

Push it to the Limit with DEX.AG - NEW Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and Connect
Wallet Options

# Push it to the Limit with DEX.AG - NEW Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and Connect
Wallet Options

##### March 17, 2020

Every professional needs the right skills, expertise, and equipment to achieve
peak performance. A pro golfer needs to know how to read the green as much as
they need their putter. A photographer requires the right lens, lighting, and
framing to convey their vision. Professional stock brokers require high speed
connections and prompt data to stay on top of the market. The coolest part
about decentralized exchanges (DEXes) and decentralized finance (DeFi) is that
everyone has the ability to view the same data and use the same equipment as
the pros, which begs the question: why would you settle for anything less?

We designed DEX.AG's Pro Trading interface with live prices, charts, and order
books to give anyone an edge while trading these fast moving DEX markets.
**This latest update to[DEX.AG](http://dex.ag) introduces limit orders,
Curve.fi, and support for new types of wallets.** First, we'd like to give a
quick thank you to the community who've been giving us fantastic feedback.

## Push It To The Limit!

### [![](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/dexag-
placing-limit-order.gif)](https://dex.ag/pro)

### Limit orders on DEX.AG Pro

Complex trade orders have been a highly requested feature among DEX.AG users.
So, you all will be happy to hear: **limit orders have arrived on[DEX.AG
Pro](https://daredevil.dex.ag/pro)**. The addition of limit orders is a
necessary component for any trading strategy and an important step in our
roadmap for DEX.AG. At the time of release, limit orders will only be
available for select tokens including ETH, DAI, USDC, ZRX, REP, BAT, and LINK
to ensure a quality trading experience. In a nutshell, we place your limit
order on our 0x order books where it can be filled by 0x trades on DEX.AG.
Bonus: placing a limit order only requires a signature meaning you don‚Äôt have
to pay any gas fees unless you decide to cancel it before it's filled.

### [![](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/dexag-
wallet-curve.gif)](https://dex.ag)

### Curve.fi + X Blaster = Better swaps between stablecoins

Stablecoins are the lifeblood of the DeFi economy. And, every market has a
preferred stablecoin which has the most liquidity. These conditions are what
DEX aggregators like DEX.AG were made for. We've integrated Curve into DEX.AG
improving prices on swaps between stablecoins such as DAI, USDC, USDT, and
TUSD. Curve.fi has gained widespread support from the community as a source of
stablecoin liquidity making it a natural fit for our X Blaster and the results
speak for themselves.

### New Connect Wallet options offer users flexibility

This space has grown a lot and nowadays users may choose to utilize any number
of wallets for different trading accounts, DeFi use cases, etc. We want to
provide everyone with access to liquidity at the best prices. **And so, in
addition to MetaMask and web3 browsers, DEX.AG now supports WalletConnect,
Portis, Fortmatic, and Authereum wallets.** Need to swap some DAI for USDC
from your phone to pay your half of the check? Or maybe you need to set that
limit order before bed from your Gnosis Safe? DEX.AG has you covered with a
wide variety of connect wallet options. This update also opens many doors for
future UI/UX improvements and will give users flexibility as we continue to
expand DEX.AG's capabilities.

## Don't let someone else seize your opportunity

> <https://t.co/IchJuxNNbH> exists so you can have more market awareness,
> which is especially useful in fast market conditions.
>
> you can find great opportunity in fast markets, but you can be someone
> else‚Äôs amazing opportunity./ <https://t.co/OePvM1KKLr>
>
> -- scott lewisüåæ (@scott_lew_is) [March 12,
> 2020](https://twitter.com/scott_lew_is/status/1238155736946888704?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw)

At the end of the day, someone has to seize the opportunities in the market.
We built [DEX.AG Pro](https://dex.ag/pro) to improve your odds at being that
someone. It's hard to overstate the advantages of having real-time data from
both an aggregated order book composed of the industry's top DEXes and
centralized exchanges in one interface. It makes it easy to assess the overall
market and trade only where and when conditions are in your favor.

The inherit advantage of trading on a DEX aggregator like DEX.AG is that the
spreads on our aggregated order books can cross and even _turn negative_. In
other words, you can buy the asset for cheaper than you can potentially sell
it right from DEX.AG Pro. Actually, we started seeing negative spreads so
often we decided to add a fun little üéâ emoji as a little easter egg for those
traders who spot the opportunity. It probably goes without saying but if you
haven't tried DEX.AG Pro yet, you're missing out.

Thank for reading! **Don 't miss out on these new updates on
[DEX.AG.](https://dex.ag) **And when you're done, we'd love to know what you
think about DEX.AG in [Discord](https://discord.gg/vSATe24). We've been
working hard to ship DEX.AG updates and your feedback helps improve the user
experience. Stay tuned because we also have some more updates shipping to our
Daredevil deployment soon. Be sure to follow us on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/DEXAG_TokenWire) to keep up with the latest
updates to DEX.AG.

* * *

##### ‚õ∞ [Concourse Open Community‚Äã](https://concourseopen.com/)

##### ‚õΩ [ETH Gas Station](https://ethgasstation.info/)

##### üêø [DEX.AG](https://dex.ag/)

##### üçá [DeFi Pulse](https://defipulse.com/)

##### [üé£ ](http://data.concourseopen.com)[DeFi Pulse
Data](http://data.defipulse.com)

##### üí∏ [Whisp](https://whisp.money/)

##### üî• [Rek.to](https://rek.to/)

## Post navigation

[Previous

DEX.AG Daredevil Update: Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and New Wallet Options

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-daredevil-update-limit-orders/)

[ Next

DEX.AG Unveils User Balances Page, Transaction History Page, and many other
UX/UI Upgrades Inspired by Feedback

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-ui-upgrades-balances-history/)

Search for: Search

#### Recent Posts

  * [DEX.AG Unveils User Balances Page, Transaction History Page, and many other UX/UI Upgrades Inspired by Feedback](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-ui-upgrades-balances-history/)
  * [Push it to the Limit with DEX.AG - NEW Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and Connect Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-limit-orders/)
  * [DEX.AG Daredevil Update: Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and New Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-daredevil-update-limit-orders/)
  * [Trade DEXes like a Pro with DEX.AG - real time charts, prices, and order books](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-pro-trading/)
  * [DEX.AG: Expert Trading Mode with Charts](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-expert-trading-beta/)

#### Archives

  * [March 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/03/)
  * [February 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/02/)
  * [January 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/01/)
  * [December 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/12/)
  * [November 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/11/)
  * [October 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/10/)
  * [September 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/09/)
  * [August 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/08/)
  * [July 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/07/)
  * [June 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/06/)
  * [May 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/05/)
  * [April 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/04/)

#### Categories

  * [Business](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/business/)
  * [Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/community/)
  * [Concourse Open Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-community/)
  * [Concourse Open Constructions](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-constructions/)
  * [ConcourseQ](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourseq/)
  * [DAO](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dao/)
  * [Developer Docs](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/developer-docs/)
  * [DEX](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex/)
  * [DEX.AG](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex-ag/)
  * [Ecosystem](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/ecosystem/)
  * [Exchange](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchange/)
  * [Exchanges](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchanges/)
  * [Explainers](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/explainers/)
  * [Humans](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/humans/)
  * [New Features](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/new-features/)
  * [Protocol](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/protocol/)
  * [Technology](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/technology/)
  * [Terrible Token Tuesday](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/terrible-token-tuesday/)
  * [Trading](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/trading/)
  * [Whisp](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/whisp/)

#### Meta

  * [Log in](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-login.php)
  * [Entries feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/feed/)
  * [Comments feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/comments/feed/)
  * [WordPress.org](https://wordpress.org/)

[![Settle](/blog/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com)

(C) 2021 Concourse Open

