[ the largest crypto index ](https://nomics.com)

  * [Assets](https://nomics.com)
  * [Exchanges](https://nomics.com/exchanges)
  * [Converter](https://nomics.com/markets/btc-bitcoin/usd-united-states-dollar)
  * [WatchlistNew](https://nomics.com/watchlist)
  * More...

  * [Advertise](https://p.nomics.com/advertising)
  * [API Key](https://p.nomics.com/cryptocurrency-bitcoin-api)

[API Key](https://p.nomics.com/cryptocurrency-bitcoin-api)

menu

  * Skip to primary navigation
  * Skip to main content
  * Skip to primary sidebar

You are here: [Home](https://nomics.com/blog/) /
[Announcements](https://nomics.com/blog/category/announcements) / Ranking the
Top Crypto Mining Pools of 2020

# Ranking the Top Crypto Mining Pools of 2020

[Announcements](https://nomics.com/blog/category/announcements) * October 12,
2020

____Nomics.com & [Nexo](https://nexo.io/) add
_[](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-mining-hardware-
providers)_[Cryptocurrency Mining
Pools](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-mining-pools)__ to their
algorithmically-ranked buyer's guides for crypto products & services.____

[![Ranking the Top Crypto Mining Pools of 2020](https://blog.nomics.com/wp-
content/uploads/2020/10/Nomics_ProductRankings-
MiningPools_Social-1024x536.jpg)](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-
mining-pools)

## **Announcing Rankings for Crypto Mining Pools**

Today, we release rankings for [cryptocurrency mining
pools](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-mining-pools).

[![Crypto Mining Pools](https://blog.nomics.com/wp-
content/uploads/2020/10/pools_top.png)](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-
mining-pools)

As of this writing, the top cryptocurrency mining pools are:

  1. [Genesis Mining](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-mining-pools)
  2. [HashFlare](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-mining-pools)
  3. [NiceHash](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-mining-pools)
  4. [](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-mining-pools)[MinerGate](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-mining-pools)
  5. [IQMining](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-mining-pools)

Rank was determined algorithmically with reputation approximated from referral
links, news sites, tweets, Reddit mentions, and other sources.

For all entries, links and tweets can be examined by clicking the number of
links or tweets:

[![Links & tweets - crypto mining pools](https://blog.nomics.com/wp-
content/uploads/2020/10/nicehash-1.png)](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-
mining-pools)

## **Crypto Products & Services, Ranked**

[Cryptocurrency Mining Pools](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-mining-
pools) is our latest release, but it‚Äôs not the first. Here‚Äôs the list so far
(with more categories coming over the next few months):

  * [Crypto Wallets](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-wallets)
  * [Crypto Credit Lines](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-credit-lines)
  * [Crypto Tax Services](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-tax-services)
  * [Crypto Custody Solutions](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-custody-solutions)
  * [Crypto OTC Desks](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-otc-desks)
  * [Blockchain Surveillance Companies](https://nomics.com/guides/blockchain-surveillance-companies) 
  * [Crypto Debit and Credit Cards](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-debit-and-credit-cards)
  * [Crypto KYC/AML Service Providers](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-kyc-aml-service-providers)
  * [Crypto On-Chain Data Providers](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-on-chain-data-providers)
  * [Cryptocurrency Events](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-events)
  * [Crypto Interest-Earning Accounts](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-interest-earning-accounts)
  * [Cryptocurrency News Sites](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-news-sites)
  * [Cryptocurrency VC Funds](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-vc-funds)
  * [Cryptocurrency Index Funds](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-index-funds)
  * [Cryptocurrency Hedge Funds](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-hedge-funds)
  * [Cryptocurrency Podcasts](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-podcasts)
  * [Cryptocurrency Meta Exchanges](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-meta-exchanges)
  * [Crypto Mining Hardware Providers](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-mining-hardware-providers)
  * [Crypto Mining Pools](https://nomics.com/guides/cryptocurrency-mining-pools)

We believe these rankings will serve as valuable buyer‚Äôs guides for crypto
products and services.

## **Stay Tuned for Updates**

Rankings update every 24 hours, [so be sure to visit
often](https://nomics.com/guides). And check in next week for the release of
rankings for Cryptocurrency Prime Brokerage Companies.

If you have feedback on user experience, listings, or other issues, please
send an email to [support@nomics.com](mailto:support@nomics.com).

**Onwards and Upwards,**  
Clay

![Clay signature](https://blog.nomics.com/wp-
content/uploads/2020/07/clay_signature.png)

P.S. Rankings are located at [nomics.com/guides](https://nomics.com/guides).
Read them all, or choose the crypto product rankings that matter most to you.

Filed Under: [Announcements](https://nomics.com/blog/category/announcements)
Tagged With: [Bitcoin Mining](https://nomics.com/blog/tag/bitcoin-mining),
[Clay Collins](https://nomics.com/blog/tag/clay-collins), [Crypto mining
pools](https://nomics.com/blog/tag/crypto-mining-pools), [Crypto product
rankings](https://nomics.com/blog/tag/crypto-product-rankings),
[Nexo](https://nomics.com/blog/tag/nexo),
[Nomics](https://nomics.com/blog/tag/nomics)

![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/a2a476d01e282f99dbcba05b7dbf46b0?s=160&d=mm&r=g)

#### Clay Collins

Co-founder and CEO of Nomics. Board Chair and Co-founder at Leadpages/Drip.
Passionate about marketing technology, cryptocurrencies, and the decentralized
economy.

## Primary Sidebar

See the pricing widget above? Want to similarly use Nomics data to show
current and trustworthy prices for your favorite cryptoassets? Then [go
here](https://widget.nomics.com/) to create your own pricing widget.

[![](https://blog.nomics.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Blog-Ad_Automated-
Newsletter.jpg)](https://news.nomics.com)

### Categories

  * [[Podcast] Flippening](https://nomics.com/blog/category/flippening "


Flippening is for cryptocurrency investors. Each week we discuss the
cryptocurrency economy, new investment strategies for maximizing returns, and
stories from the front lines of financial disruption. Flippening is for a new
class of investors that were not part of the financial services world before
bitcoin, but got into the finance because of their passion for cryptoassets,
blockchain, altcoins, and distributed ledger technology.")

  * [[Podcast] Nomics Update](https://nomics.com/blog/category/nomics-update "
This is the audio journal of Nomics.com CEO Clay Collins. The podcast tells
stories from inside our cryptocurrency & bitcoin market data API company.



Topics include Nomics‚Äô product roadmap; new partnerships; company outlook;
important new ideas shaping the future of Nomics.com and Nomics crypto market
data API; as well as business strategy, philosophy, crypto investing &
fundraising.



Nomics.com launched in January of 2018 as an API-first company. The company
was created in response to increasing demand for professional grade market
data products & APIs for institutional investors.")

  * [Announcements](https://nomics.com/blog/category/announcements)
  * [API Case Studies](https://nomics.com/blog/category/case-studies)
  * [Essays](https://nomics.com/blog/category/essays)
  * [Newsletter](https://nomics.com/blog/category/newsletter)
  * [Sponsored](https://nomics.com/blog/category/sponsored)

### Popular Podcast Episodes

  * [Tokenize The World: A Tokenized Securities Documentary](https://nomics.com/blog/flippening/security-token-documentary)
  * [[Podcast] Strategies for Accumulating BTC (Instead of USD) w/ Tuur Demeester from Adamant Capital - Parts 1 & 2 (Ep. 0044 - 0045)](https://nomics.com/blog/flippening/bitcoin-accumulation-tuur-demeester-adamant-capital)
  * [[Podcast] "Behind The Scenes" At A High-Volume Crypto OTC Desk w/ Kevin Zhou of Galois Capital (Eps. 0030 - 0031)](https://nomics.com/blog/flippening/crypto-otc-desk-galois-capital-kevin-zhou)
  * [[Podcast] Binance‚Äôs Rapid Rise w/ CEO Changpeng Zhao (CZ) & CFO Wei Zhou](https://nomics.com/blog/flippening/binance-cz-wei-zhou)
  * [üéß The Evolution of Crypto-Backed Loans w/ Antoni Trenchev from Nexo (Ep. 0064)](https://nomics.com/blog/flippening/crypto-backed-loans-antoni-trenchev-nexo)

### Recent Posts

  * [Nomics Launches Watchlists + Portfolio Tracking](https://nomics.com/blog/announcements/watchlist)
  * [Why Nomics.com is Adjusting HEX‚Äôs Circulating Supply](https://nomics.com/blog/announcements/hex-circulating-supply)
  * [We List Cryptoassets First](https://nomics.com/blog/announcements/first-to-list)
  * [Nomics Adds Order Book & Trade Data for All Exchange Markets](https://nomics.com/blog/announcements/order-book-trade-data)
  * [Nomics Launches Chainlink Node and Bring Professional-Grade Crypto Asset Data On-Chain](https://nomics.com/blog/announcements/nomics-chainlink-node)

[ ](https://nomics.com/)

Made with ‚ù§ in Minnesota  
and Massachusetts  ![Minnesota and Massachusetts](https://nomics-com.s3.us-
east-2.amazonaws.com/assets/mnma.png)

  * #####  Market Activity 

    * [Assets](https://nomics.com/)
    * [Exchanges](https://nomics.com/exchanges)
    * [Currency Converter](https://nomics.com/markets/btc-bitcoin/usd-united-states-dollar)
    * [WatchlistNew](https://nomics.com/watchlist)
  * #####  Products 

    * [Advertise](https://p.nomics.com/advertising)
    * [Pricing](https://nomics.com/pricing)
    * [Market Data API](https://p.nomics.com/cryptocurrency-bitcoin-api)
    * [White Label API for Exchanges](https://p.nomics.com/white-label-api)
    * [Services](https://p.nomics.com/services)
    * [Contact Sales](https://p.nomics.com/contact-sales)
    * [Feature Request](https://requests.nomics.com)
    * [Status Page](https://status.nomics.com)
    * [Product Updates](https://updates.nomics.com)
  * #####  Resources 

    * [API Docs](https://nomics.com/docs)
    * [Blog](https://nomics.com/blog)
    * [Newsletter](https://news.nomics.com/)
    * [Forums](https://forums.nomics.com)
    * [Exchange Integration](https://nomics.com/blog/announcements/exchange-integration)
    * [Verified Exchange Program](https://nomics.com/blog/announcements/verified)
    * [Market Data Quiz](https://lp.nomics.com/quiz/)
    * [Nomics' Webinar](https://webinar.nomics.com)
    * [Webinar Archive](https://webinars.nomics.com)
  * #####  Company 

    * [About](https://p.nomics.com/about)
    * [Manifesto](https://nomics.com/blog/essays/manifesto)
    * [Careers](https://nomics.breezy.hr)
  * #####  Contact 

    * [Contact Us](https://p.nomics.com/contact)
    * [612-504-9929](tel:6125049929)
    * [ ](https://www.facebook.com/nomicsfinance) [ ](https://twitter.com/nomicsfinance) [ ](https://www.linkedin.com/company/nomicsfinance)
[API Key](https://p.nomics.com/cryptocurrency-bitcoin-api)

    * [ ](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.nomicsmobile)
    * [ ](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nomics-crypto/id1483651054)

(C) Nomics‚Ñ¢ | All Rights Reserved  [Terms](https://p.nomics.com/terms-and-
conditions) | [Privacy](https://p.nomics.com/privacy-policy)

Shares

  * [ __ ](http://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fnomics.com%2Fblog%2Fannouncements%2Frankings-crypto-mining-pools&t=Ranking%20the%20Top%20Crypto%20Mining%20Pools%20of%202020)
  * [ __ ](http://twitter.com/share?text=Ranking%20the%20Top%20Crypto%20Mining%20Pools%20of%202020&url=https%3A%2F%2Fnomics.com%2Fblog%2Fannouncements%2Frankings-crypto-mining-pools&via=nomicsfinance)
  * [ __ ](http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https%3A%2F%2Fnomics.com%2Fblog%2Fannouncements%2Frankings-crypto-mining-pools&title=Ranking%20the%20Top%20Crypto%20Mining%20Pools%20of%202020)
  * [ __ ](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fnomics.com%2Fblog%2Fannouncements%2Frankings-crypto-mining-pools&t=Ranking%20the%20Top%20Crypto%20Mining%20Pools%20of%202020)

Share This

  * [ __ Facebook ](http://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fnomics.com%2Fblog%2Fannouncements%2Frankings-crypto-mining-pools&t=Ranking%20the%20Top%20Crypto%20Mining%20Pools%20of%202020)
  * [ __ Twitter ](http://twitter.com/share?text=Ranking%20the%20Top%20Crypto%20Mining%20Pools%20of%202020&url=https%3A%2F%2Fnomics.com%2Fblog%2Fannouncements%2Frankings-crypto-mining-pools&via=nomicsfinance)
  * [ __ LinkedIn ](http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https%3A%2F%2Fnomics.com%2Fblog%2Fannouncements%2Frankings-crypto-mining-pools&title=Ranking%20the%20Top%20Crypto%20Mining%20Pools%20of%202020)
  * [ __ Hacker News ](https://news.ycombinator.com/submitlink?u=https%3A%2F%2Fnomics.com%2Fblog%2Fannouncements%2Frankings-crypto-mining-pools&t=Ranking%20the%20Top%20Crypto%20Mining%20Pools%20of%202020)

