[ ![0xb10c logo](/0xb10c.png) ](/)

# 0xB10C

Bitcoin Developer

[Blog](/) [Mempool Observations](/mempool-observations) [Projects](/projects)
[Talks](/talks)

â˜€  requires JS

##  rawtx library

#####

Saturday, September 28, 2019

The rawtx Golang module helps you (and me) to answer questions about raw
Bitcoin transactions, their inputs, outputs, and scripts. I use the rawtx
package for example in my [Bitcoin Transaction Monitor](/projects/bitcoin-
transaction-monitor/) and [transactionfee.info](/projects/transactionfee-
info-2020-version/) projects.

![rawtx logo](/data/projects/rawtx/rawtx.png)

The package has a high unit test coverage (> 90%) and is battle-tested (all
mainnet Bitcoin transactions have been analyzed at least once). However, I'd
strongly advise to not use it in a consensus-critical environment.

[rawtx on GitHub](https://github.com/0xB10C/rawtx/tree/master) [Documentation
on GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/0xB10C/rawtx)

Enable JavaScript to view comments. Comments are privacy friendly and self-
hosted with [isso](https://posativ.org/isso/).

All text and images in this work are licensed under a [Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International
License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/) [![Creative Commons
License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-
sa/4.0/80x15.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)

#### Next

![Image for Bitcoin Transaction Monitor](/data/projects/bitcoin-transaction-
monitor/header.png) [](/projects/bitcoin-transaction-monitor/)

* * *

October 10, 2019

#### Bitcoin Transaction Monitor

Whenever you, an exchange or somebody else sends a Bitcoin transaction, it
gets broadcast to all nodes in the Bitcoin network. Each broadcast transaction
is represented by a dot on the [Bitcoin Transaction
Monitor](https://mempool.observer/monitor) scatterplot. The transactions are
arranged by the time of arrival at my Bitcoin node and its feerate (fee per
size). The plot reveals activity patterns of wallets, exchanges, and users
transacting on the Bitcoin network.

[](/projects/bitcoin-transaction-monitor/)

#### Previous

![Image for Timeline: Historical events in the development of
Bitcoin](/data/projects/bitcoin-dev-history/bitcoin-development-history.png)
[](/projects/bitcoin-dev-history/)

* * *

August 4, 2019

#### Timeline: Historical events in the development of Bitcoin

To fully understand the rationale behind the current state of Bitcoin
development, knowledge about historical events is essential. I created an
open-source project containing the data for a timeline of historical
developments in Bitcoin. Most data points are adopted from a talk [John
Newbery](https://twitter.com/jfnewbery) gave on the [History and Philosophy of
Bitcoin Development](https://www.meetup.com/BitDevsNYC/events/262321510/).
I've used this timeline in my blog post [The Incomplete History of Bitcoin
Development](/blog/004-the-incomplete-history-of-bitcoin-development/).

[](/projects/bitcoin-dev-history/)

[ ![logo stackexchange](/img/footer/stackexchange.svg)
](https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/users/63817/0xb10c) [ ![logo
linkedin](/img/footer/linkedin.svg) ](https://linkedin.com/in/0xb10c) [ ![logo
mastodon](/img/footer/mastodon.svg) ](https://x0f.org/@0xb10c) [ ![logo
twitter](/img/footer/twitter.svg) ](https://twitter.com/0xb10c) [ ![logo
keybase](/img/footer/keybase.svg) ](https://keybase.io/b10c) [ ![logo
github](/img/footer/github.svg) ](https://github.com/0xb10c) [ ![logo
rss](/img/footer/rss.svg) ](https://b10c.me/feed.xml) [ ![logo
reddit](/img/footer/reddit.svg) ](https://reddit.com/u/0xb10c) [ ![logo
mail](/img/footer/gmail.svg) ](mailto:0xb10c+b10c-me@gmail.com)

