[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Reading between the lines of the UK Crypto-assets task force report

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

[mc4wp_form id='4618']

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/05/ov_jocelyn-150x150.jpg)

October 2018

Posted by

Jocelyn Roberts

Principal, Head of Legal

She was previously an associate at Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton, where she
focused on cross-border corporate and financial transactions. Jocelyn
completed her legal training with Hogan Lovells, qualifying as a solicitor of
the Senior Courts of England and Wales....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1285)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/blog-
post-9.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/) [Lawrence Lundy
Joins Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/)

April 2016  

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/blog-
post-7.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-vc-to-
hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/) [Outlier
Ventures Becomes First VC To Hire ‘Head of Crypto-Economics’ With Appointment
of Eden Dhaliwal](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-
vc-to-hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/)

August 2017  

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Reading between the lines of the UK Crypto-assets task force report

Posted by Jocelyn Roberts - October 2018

[
__](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://outlierventures.io/reading-
between-the-lines-of-the-uk-crypto-assets-task-force-report) [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://outlierventures.io/reading-
between-the-lines-of-the-uk-crypto-assets-task-force-report&title=Reading
between the lines of the UK Crypto-assets task force report) [
__](https://twitter.com/share?url=https://outlierventures.io/reading-between-
the-lines-of-the-uk-crypto-assets-task-force-report&text=Reading between the
lines of the UK Crypto-assets task force report) [
__](https://telegram.me/share/url?url=https://outlierventures.io/reading-
between-the-lines-of-the-uk-crypto-assets-task-force-report&text=Reading
between the lines of the UK Crypto-assets task force report)

The long-awaited [UK Cryptoassets Taskforce
Report](https://www.fca.org.uk/news/news-stories/cryptoasset-taskforce-
publishes-report-uk-approach-cryptoassets) was published on 30 October 2018,
following shortly after the Parliamentary Treasury Committee’s report in
September. The report recognised that there is currently a lack of clarity for
market participants and confirmed a number of consultations are scheduled for
the end of 2018 and 2019. Although the report appears to be more positively
framed than the [Treasury Committee
report](https://www.parliament.uk/business/committees/committees-a-z/commons-
select/treasury-committee/news-parliament-2017/digital-currencies-report-
pubished-17-19/), at this stage we still don’t know what approach the
Taskforce members (HM Treasury, the FCA and the Bank of England) will adopt
towards regulation of crypto assets in the UK.



The consultations are expected to cover the key areas of risk identified by
the Taskforce, including around use of crypto assets for illicit activities,
providing guidance around which crypto assets fall within the current
regulatory perimeter, assessing whether any extension of the regulatory
perimeter is necessary and whether and how to regulate effectively exchanges
and wallet providers. In addition, by the end of 2018 the Taskforce are going
to consider a potential prohibition on sales of derivatives referencing crypto
assets to retail consumers.



All of this sounds very sensible and it does not come as a great surprise that
these are areas on which the Taskforce would like to focus. However, the
Taskforce did not give anything away in terms of what the consultations might
propose or how they envisage the future regulatory landscape for crypto
assets. It took a different approach to the Treasury Committee as it
categorised different types of tokens (exchange, security and utility) and did
not suggest that all tokens should be regulated in the same way. However, it
also did not provide any indication of how the Taskforce believes tokens
currently falling outside the regulatory perimeter should be regulated. ICO
issuers will therefore need to wait to see the content of the consultations
before they start any celebrations.



Overall, the report gives us some cautious optimism that that the UK
regulators intend to adopt a thoughtful approach to any new regulation,
ensuring adequate protection of consumers while also supporting the continued
development of DLT and the crypto asset industry in the UK.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

