###### [![Samourai
Wallet](https://64.media.tumblr.com/avatar_36fa1c18c89f_64.pnj) Samourai
Wallet](/)

* * *

* * *

* * *

x

  * [Archive](/archive)
  * [RSS](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/rss)
  * [Simplify](http://simplifytheme.tumblr.com) version 1.22. Theme Designed & Developed by [](http://amitjakhu.com)Amit Jakhu. Powered by [Tumblr](http://tumblr.com).

[Oct 10  
2018](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/178925662177/retiring-afterburner)

### [Retiring
Afterburner](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/178925662177/retiring-
afterburner)

First a little history for the newer bitcoin users.  

Though 2017 wasn't that long ago, the landscape of Bitcoin was very different
than it is today. Segwit was not yet activated on the network, almost all
popular wallet software didn't allow users to set custom miner fees, and very
few allowed users to send with the useful Replace By Fee flag on their
transactions. These shortcomings in the most popular and well funded wallets
in combination with a long [sustained politically motivated spam attack on the
bitcoin network](https://href.li/?https://medium.com/@laurentmt/when-moby-
dick-meets-the-terminator-d014c315af85), contributed to the degradation of the
bitcoin experience for many thousands of users and was a substantial factor in
the artificial dramatic increase in transaction fees in 2017.

While the larger venture capital backed wallets decided to use this time to
turn their back on Bitcoin, we at Samourai decided to incorporate the tools
users needed to navigate the new realities of the network. During this event
we improved our fee estimation, [introduced custom
fees](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/161576329182/advanced-miner-fee-
controls), [implemented batch
spending](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/170574017907/introducing-batch-
spending-for-cheaper-more), [implemented Replace By Fee for topping up miner
fee on transactions sent, and CPFP for topping up miner fees on transactions
they received](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/161576329182/advanced-
miner-fee-controls). So, while Samourai users were largely shielded from the
worst of the impact, many many more users were stuck using inferior wallet
software.

On June 15, 2017 [we released Bitcoin
Afterburner](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/161849436177/introducing-
bitcoin-afterburner) on the Google Play Store. Afterburner was designed to
help non Samourai Wallet users boost their stuck bitcoin transactions using
the advanced tools unavailable in their wallet. Afterburner boosted many stuck
bitcoin transactions shortly after release - helping bitcoin users make the
transactions they needed to make -  but more importantly, it shifted the wider
discussion within the context of what is the minimum functionality a wallet
should provide users. Users started to demand more control over their
transactions. We see this as a huge victory for bitcoin users as most major
wallet providers now allow users to set custom miner fees, and some have
implemented RBF and CPFP fee boosting features.

Today we are saluting Bitcoin Afterburner for its service and retiring it from
active duty. To all those who used Afterburner to boost their stuck
transaction, you played a part in showing the major venture capital backed
wallet providers that they needed to change and listen to their users, and
thus you helped make Bitcoin better for those who came after you. If we need
to remind them again in the future we won't hesitate to bring to bring
Afterburner back into active duty. Afterburner will be removed from the Google
Play Store as of October 11th 2018, but will remain available, fully open
source, [on our Github repository.
](https://href.li/?https://github.com/Samourai-Wallet/Afterburner)

![image](https://64.media.tumblr.com/5ea2f934bc639929185152b3ee43e45f/tumblr_inline_pgeektlpHo1tu47rq_500.gifv)

  * [October 10, 2018](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/178925662177/retiring-afterburner)

  1. [![](https://assets.tumblr.com/images/default_avatar/cone_open_16.png)](https://trulife1234.tumblr.com/ "Sharing Love ")[trulife1234](https://trulife1234.tumblr.com/ "Sharing Love") liked this 

  2. [![](https://64.media.tumblr.com/avatar_36fa1c18c89f_16.pnj)](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/ "Samourai Wallet")[samouraiwallet](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/ "Samourai Wallet") posted this 

[Older Post](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/178536644472) [Newer
Post](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/181715312912)
![](https://px.srvcs.tumblr.com/impixu?T=1653247679&J=eyJ0eXBlIjoidXJsIiwidXJsIjoiaHR0cDovL2Jsb2cuc2Ftb3VyYWl3YWxsZXQuY29tL3Bvc3QvMTc4OTI1NjYyMTc3L3JldGlyaW5nLWFmdGVyYnVybmVyIiwicmVxdHlwZSI6MCwicm91dGUiOiIvcG9zdC86aWQvOnN1bW1hcnkiLCJub3NjcmlwdCI6MX0=&U=CHICGCNBNB&K=515104f35967535c0b15cf0cdf3c641c2445f27eac46987f681349d1de736a2b&R=)![](https://px.srvcs.tumblr.com/impixu?T=1653247679&J=eyJ0eXBlIjoicG9zdCIsInVybCI6Imh0dHA6Ly9ibG9nLnNhbW91cmFpd2FsbGV0LmNvbS9wb3N0LzE3ODkyNTY2MjE3Ny9yZXRpcmluZy1hZnRlcmJ1cm5lciIsInJlcXR5cGUiOjAsInJvdXRlIjoiL3Bvc3QvOmlkLzpzdW1tYXJ5IiwicG9zdHMiOlt7InBvc3RpZCI6IjE3ODkyNTY2MjE3NyIsImJsb2dpZCI6MjM1MTUyNzczLCJzb3VyY2UiOjMzfV0sIm5vc2NyaXB0IjoxfQ==&U=PPGLAGNFED&K=7c38c5a64c556bb3afab04f1f3e092806ab334f654d61ba5e3d138d1f8a1f779&R=)

