[ ![The Integral](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/04/dydx-
logo-white-1.svg) ](https://integral.dydx.exchange)

  * [ ![The Integral](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/04/dydx-logo-white-1.svg) ](https://integral.dydx.exchange)
  * ### Categories

[

###

Open Finance ](/tag/open-finance/)

[

###

Derivatives ](/tag/derivatives/)

[

###

Macroeconomics ](/tag/macroeconomics/)

[

###

dYdX Announcements ](/tag/dydx-announcements/)

[

###

Educational ](/tag/educational/)

[Trade](https://trade.dydx.exchange)

# Scaling dYdX with StarkWare

[dYdX Announcements](https://integral.dydx.exchange/tag/dydx-announcements/) •
Aug 18, 2020

[
](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://integral.dydx.exchange/scaling-
with-starkware/&title=Scaling%20dYdX%20with%20StarkWare) [
](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Scaling%20dYdX%20with%20StarkWare&url=https://integral.dydx.exchange/scaling-
with-starkware/)

## Partnering with StarkWare to scale decentralized trading

dYdX is excited to announce a partnership with StarkWare. Our engineering
teams are collaborating on a Layer 2 scaling solution for Perpetual Contracts,
based on StarkWare’s [StarkEx](https://starkware.co/product/starkex/)
scalability engine and dYdX’s [Perpetual smart
contracts](https://github.com/dydxprotocol/perpetual). Our Perpetual Contracts
will be powered by StarkEx by the end of this year.

To provide the best user experience for traders, we have decided to transition
to Layer 2. Traders can expect significantly lower gas costs, and in turn,
lower trading fees and minimum trade sizes. We remain committed to our mission
of building open, secure, and powerful financial products.

StarkWare is developing software to dramatically improve blockchain
scalability by allowing any type of computation to move off-chain, using the
Ethereum blockchain as a public immutable commitment layer. StarkWare’s dYdX
integration combines STARK proofs for data integrity with on-chain data
availability to ensure a fully non-custodial protocol.

## What does this partnership mean for our traders?

### Significantly Reduced Gas & Trading Fees

Trades are submitted on-chain in [ZK-
Rollups](https://medium.com/starkware/starks-over-mainnet-b83e63db04c0),
reducing the amount of gas required per-trade. We are able to pass on those
savings to traders in the form of reduced trading fees across the board.

### Reduced Minimum Trade Sizes

Since there are smaller fees per-trade, we are able to offer smaller trade
sizes, allowing traders to try out dYdX by starting with a smaller amount of
capital.

### Cross-Margin

Traders will be able to trade on multiple Perpetual Contracts using a single
margin account, allowing for dramatically increased capital efficiency while
trading multiple pairs.

### More Trading Pairs

With cross margining and increased scalability, we will be able to launch many
more trading pairs on dYdX. We will also be able to spin up new pairs faster,
allowing traders to trade the tokens they want, when they want to.

### Instant Trade Settlement

Trades are matched off-chain and held in batches until the zero-knowledge
rollup and proof are submitted on-chain. This prevents front-running of trade
settlement and allows for instantaneous balance updates without waiting for a
transaction to be mined. Trading on dYdX will feel every bit as fast as
trading on a centralized exchange.

### More Performant Price Oracles

Prices are attested-to by oracles using STARK-compatible signatures, allowing
prices to be used as soon as they are signed, rather than waiting for a
transaction to be mined. This significantly increases the economic security of
the system against flash crashes, and allows for real-time liquidations.

### Higher Leverage & Lower Liquidation Penalties

Given the performance improvements of the oracles, we will be able to offer
lower margin requirements, which means both higher maximum leverage as well as
lower penalties when liquidated.

* * *

### Start Trading Now

We are aiming to launch by the end of 2020. Until then, trade our BTC-USD and
ETH-USD Perpetual Contracts for up to 10× leverage. Start trading
[here](https://trade.dydx.exchange/perpetual?trk-origin=Integral).

* * *

### About dYdX

[dYdX](https://trade.dydx.exchange/?trk-origin=Integral) is building open,
secure, and powerful financial products accessible globally. Trade Spot,
Margin, and Perpetual Markets, with up to 10× leverage. dYdX runs on audited
smart contracts on Ethereum, and enables trading with no intermediaries. It
allows traders to move quickly, while maintaining full control of their
assets.

### About StarkWare

[StarkWare](https://starkware.co/?trk-origin=Integral) develops ZKP technology
to solve two of the biggest problems of blockchains: scalability and privacy.
Focusing on scalability, StarkWare has the fastest in-class technology for
asserting computational integrity via succinct, transparent, and post-quantum-
secure proofs.

#### Subscribe to our newsletter

Get the latest posts delivered right to your inbox.

Your email address Subscribe

![Success!](https://integral.dydx.exchange/assets/images/success.png?v=c7f248bd02)

Now check your inbox and click the link to confirm your subscription.

Please enter a valid email address

Oops! There was an error sending the email, please try later.

[ ](https://integral.dydx.exchange/author/dydx/)

####  [dYdX Exchange](https://integral.dydx.exchange/author/dydx/)

dYdX is a decentralized exchange that supports spot, margin, and perpetuals
trading. The Integral is a blog covering Open Finance, Crypto Markets,
Bitcoin, Crypto Derivatives and dYdX Announcements.

No results for your search, please try with something else.

The Integral (C) 2022   •   Published with [Ghost](https://ghost.org)

[ ](https://t.me/joinchat/GBnMlBb9mQblQck2pThTgw) [
](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dydx/) [
](https://twitter.com/dydxprotocol)

[JavaScript license
information](https://integral.dydx.exchange/assets/html/javascript.html?v=c7f248bd02)

Great! You've successfully subscribed.

Great! Next, complete checkout for full access.

Welcome back! You've successfully signed in.

Success! Your account is fully activated, you now have access to all content.

