[](https://medium.com/)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/20cd72551f2e&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](https://medium.com/)

[Home](https://medium.com/)

[Notifications](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Enigma](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*aIQTqQDM97_LBgHTkHGqcA.png)](https://blog.enigma.co/?source=post_page
-----20cd72551f2e--------------------------------)

Published in

[Enigma

](https://blog.enigma.co/?source=post_page-----
20cd72551f2e--------------------------------)

[![James
Waugh](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/2*Q4zRpsuf4GKFMEuZjWyC_w.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@jwaup?source=post_page
-----20cd72551f2e--------------------------------)

[James Waugh](https://medium.com/@jwaup?source=post_page-----
20cd72551f2e--------------------------------)

[Follow](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fsubscribe%2Fuser%2F4ae4fe949e3c&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fsecret-
zone-making-privacy-one-with-the-
cosmos-20cd72551f2e&user=James+Waugh&userId=4ae4fe949e3c&source=post_page-4ae4fe949e3c
----20cd72551f2e---------------------follow_byline-----------)

May 1, 2020

·

5 min read

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fbookmark%2Fp%2F20cd72551f2e&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fsecret-
zone-making-privacy-one-with-the-
cosmos-20cd72551f2e&source=--------------------------bookmark_header-----------)

[

Save

](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fbookmark%2Fp%2F20cd72551f2e&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fsecret-
zone-making-privacy-one-with-the-
cosmos-20cd72551f2e&source=--------------------------bookmark_header-----------)

# Secret Zone: Making Privacy One With the Cosmos

## How the Enigma Blockchain Fits in the Cosmos Ecosystem

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*23dV5hDnylw2c47iRZUDgA.png)

Our team and community believe privacy is necessary for mainstream adoption of
blockchain technology. Our vision of the future involves many different
blockchains with specific purposes, all of which benefit from being able to
use private data safely and securely. Users of decentralized applications will
be able to maintain ownership and control of their identity and data. **This
is one of the reasons Enigma is thrilled to be building part of the internet
of blockchains with**[ **Cosmos**](https://cosmos.network/ecosystem) **.**

In this post, we explain how our Secret Zone fits into the Cosmos ecosystem
and its many “zones.” First, we give an overview of Cosmos, then we share ways
our team is learning, collaborating and coordinating with particular members
of the community, including the [Cosmos Governance Working
Group](https://github.com/gavinly/CosmosGWG),
[CosmWasm](https://www.cosmwasm.com) and the [Interchain
Foundation](https://interchain.io). Next, we discuss opportunities to support
existing projects in the Cosmos ecosystem, highlighting our participation in
the upcoming [Game of Zones](https://goz.cosmosnetwork.dev). Ultimately, our
goal is to make privacy one with the Cosmos!

# What is Cosmos?

Essentially, Cosmos is a decentralized network of independent blockchains
validated in parallel with BFT consensus algorithms like
[Tendermint](https://cosmos.network/intro#what-is-tendermint-core-and-the-
abci). However, that description barely scratches the surface of its complex
architecture, involving three major components:

  1. Tendermint
  2. Cosmos SDK
  3. Inter-Blockchain Communication

>  _From the Cosmos website:_ “Until recently, building a blockchain required
> building all three layers (Networking, Consensus, and Application) from the
> ground up. Ethereum simplified the development of decentralized applications
> by providing a Virtual-Machine blockchain on which anyone could deploy
> custom logic in the form of Smart Contracts. However, it did not simplify
> the development of blockchains themselves.”

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/534/0*HaWZ9DWaN2TGZHNR)

[cosmos.network](https://cosmos.network/intro)

Whereas the Enigma Discovery network relied on Ethereum for consensus, the
[Enigma Blockchain](https://github.com/enigmampc/enigmachain), operated by
validators known as “secret nodes,” is an independent layer-1 system built
using the Cosmos SDK. Our dev team is working to enable running CosmWasm
inside SGX for encrypted computation, i.e. “secret contract” functionality.
This will power “Secret Apps” that utilize our “Secret Zone.”

## Relevant Forum Post:

[Why the Cosmos move doesn’t mean we’re leaving
Ethereum](https://forum.enigma.co/t/why-the-cosmos-move-doesnt-mean-were-
leaving-ethereum/1301)

[

## Why the Cosmos move doesn't mean we're leaving Ethereum

### Seen this question/assumption pop up again and again, so wanted to address
it head on. Just because the Enigma Chain is…

forum.enigma.co

](https://forum.enigma.co/t/why-the-cosmos-move-doesnt-mean-were-leaving-
ethereum/1301)

# Governance

Our community has learned a lot from the Cosmos Governance Working Group,
which is providing extremely useful resources on how to use the on-chain
governance module. For example, the working group has built a wiki about
[parameter changes](https://github.com/gavinly/CosmosParametersWiki), along
with documentation of [best
practices](https://github.com/gavinly/CosmosCommunitySpend/blob/master/bestpractices.md)
for community-spend proposals.

Additionally, there have been interesting questions raised that could
similarly apply to Enigma. Specifically, how does the Cosmos Hub account for
the interests of other zones? [This
podcast](https://anchor.fm/citizencosmos/episodes/Gavin-from-Figment-Networks
--Governance-ed5jm8) featuring GWG leader Gavin Birch includes a fascinating
discussion about interchain governance and what it could mean for the Cosmos
Hub and its overall ecosystem.

# CosmWasm

CosmWasm allows developers to write multi-chain smart contracts using any
programming language. CosmWasm is written as a module that can plug into the
Cosmos SDK. This means anyone building a blockchain with the Cosmos SDK can
quickly and easily add support for smart contracting, without adjusting
existing logic.

Since joining the Cosmos ecosystem, our team has collaborated with the
CosmWasm dev team and made valuable contributions. Building on their hard
work, we are introducing a module named “ _compute_ ,” which is designed to
enable private computation (secret contracts). Here is a recent technical
update on our progress toward running CosmWasm in SGX with Encryption:
[Milestone 2 of 3: CosmWasm in SGX Without
Encryption](https://forum.enigma.co/t/milestone-2-of-3-cosmwasm-in-sgx-
without-encryption/1548)

 _Stay tuned for more information on this in our April development update!_

# IBC: Inter-Blockchain Communication Protocol

Understanding this revolutionary technology is challenging, so the IBC team
recommends breaking it down into 4 components: **Clients, Connections,
Channels and Packets.**

Another way to think about IBC is in comparison to TCP/IP. Modern computers
are equipped with network cards to make network requests; however, blockchains
can’t really make network requests. There needs to be some sort of actor
making those requests on behalf of the individual chains. Such actors are
called _relayers_.

This necessarily introduces fundamental economic imbalances. As coins / tokens
move between zones, value is generated. What happens to that value? There will
be many zone to zone interactions. Knowing the sources and uses of value is
going to be instructive for the early stages of IBC, hence why our team is
keen to participate in the Game of Zones and contribute to that learning.

# Secret Zone

In the future, application-specific zones will use our network of SGX-enabled
nodes for private computations. By implementing our `compute` module, any
blockchain developer will gain the ability to utilize Secret Contracts in
their system. In order to pay for gas, users will need Secret coins (SCRT),
the native coin of our network. We believe trust in Enigma’s validator
community will be an important factor in the decision to use our network,
which should operate like a Secret Hub with many connections to other zones
that need privacy.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/534/0*JnDymJYib3wAUN83)

[cosmos.network](https://cosmos.network/intro)

For example, transactional privacy will be important for zones in the Cosmos
ecosystem, including the Cosmos Hub, Terra, etc. Secret access control is
another interesting way to leverage the power of secret contracts. We’d love
to see more creative applications built on Cosmos, and game developers might
need private computation in order to meet certain requirements. Secret voting
is another exciting use case, which potentially benefits every implementation
of the Cosmos SDK. Learn more about how that could work:

[

## Secret governance module

### In addition to collaborating with the CosmWasm team, we have been
exploring ways to contribute within the Cosmos…

forum.enigma.co

](https://forum.enigma.co/t/secret-governance-module/1551)

# Game of Zones Participation

Live testnet visualization:
[https://goz.cosmos.network](https://goz.cosmos.network/)

Our team is excited to compete in the IBC relayer testnet challenge in order
to strengthen relationships and further support other zones. Hopefully,
participating in this competition leads to more opportunities for
collaboration with developers and validators in the Cosmos ecosystem.

We’re looking forward to integrating secret contract functionality and
continuing to explore the many possible use cases for Secret Apps. If you have
any ideas or questions, please come talk with our team and community in the
following channels:

[Our Forum](https://forum.enigma.co) | [Cosmos
Discord](https://discord.gg/3NQZKu3) | [Our
Discord](https://enigma.co/discord)

## To infinity and beyond!

 _— The Enigma Team_

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*5V0rz86gYpYZfRlf.png)

 **To discuss the Enigma protocol or receive technical support:  
**[
_Forum_](http://forum.enigma.co/?source=post_page---------------------------)
_|_[
_Discord_](https://discord.gg/SJK32GY?source=post_page---------------------------)
_|_[
_Twitter_](https://twitter.com/enigmampc?source=post_page---------------------------)

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fvote%2Fenigmampc%2F20cd72551f2e&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fsecret-
zone-making-privacy-one-with-the-
cosmos-20cd72551f2e&user=James+Waugh&userId=4ae4fe949e3c&source=-----20cd72551f2e
---------------------clap_footer-----------)

\--

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fvote%2Fenigmampc%2F20cd72551f2e&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fsecret-
zone-making-privacy-one-with-the-
cosmos-20cd72551f2e&user=James+Waugh&userId=4ae4fe949e3c&source=-----20cd72551f2e
---------------------clap_footer-----------)

\--

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fvote%2Fenigmampc%2F20cd72551f2e&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fsecret-
zone-making-privacy-one-with-the-
cosmos-20cd72551f2e&user=James+Waugh&userId=4ae4fe949e3c&source=-----20cd72551f2e
---------------------clap_footer-----------)

\--

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fbookmark%2Fp%2F20cd72551f2e&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fsecret-
zone-making-privacy-one-with-the-
cosmos-20cd72551f2e&source=--------------------------bookmark_footer-----------)

## [More from Enigma](https://blog.enigma.co/?source=post_page-----
20cd72551f2e--------------------------------)

[Follow](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fsubscribe%2Fcollection%2Fenigmampc%2F20cd72551f2e&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fsecret-
zone-making-privacy-one-with-the-
cosmos-20cd72551f2e&collection=Enigma&collectionId=6cb5d792f282&source=post_page
-----20cd72551f2e---------------------follow_footer-----------)

Official Blog of Enigma - Securing the Decentralized Web.

[Read more from Enigma](https://blog.enigma.co/?source=post_page-----
20cd72551f2e--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Brian
Iselin](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*fGUiCIHDw1qoz33oCHs8jA.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@brianiselin67?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Brian Iselin

](https://medium.com/@brianiselin67?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## The forms of blockchain — slavefreetrade’s use case

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*vyZk9CuVgDAPXt0V)](https://medium.com/@brianiselin67/the-
forms-of-blockchain-slavefreetrades-use-
case-84cf34c4e2c1?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Frankfurt School Blockchain
Center](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Iz6wCWpr6FGxMSdy0UQeqA.png)](https://fsblockchain.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Frankfurt School Blockchain Center

](https://fsblockchain.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Frankfurt School Blockchain Center and SettleMint enter into partnership

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*OTkPEbrRIj0okK3EuDDP_g.png)](https://fsblockchain.medium.com/frankfurt-
school-blockchain-center-and-settlemint-enter-into-
partnership-308db77350b9?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Okwong William
Bassey](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*6JojMfUuFRWVT546tfmUOg.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@okwongbassey017?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Okwong William Bassey

](https://medium.com/@okwongbassey017?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## The Difference between MatrixETF and Traditional ETFs.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*P0gnSg0TJogPDB4C7_jCyw.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@okwongbassey017/the-
difference-between-matrixetf-and-traditional-etfs-
dfbbfbfb5c8c?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

[[![Advanced United Continent
Project](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*gI_QwrVJV6Ac8rraM36wpw.jpeg)](https://advancedunitedcont.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Advanced United Continent Project

](https://advancedunitedcont.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Cashless Society and Digital Payment

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*teYfoj5vuG0bnTJ_xGpb3Q.png)](https://advancedunitedcont.medium.com/cashless-
and-digital-payment-bb9d1e02506b?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Oscar
W](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*ZO7zB9u5Q7SrCTfDdk5Wcg.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@mywaymywei?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Oscar W

](https://medium.com/@mywaymywei?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

in

[Cortex Labs

](https://medium.com/cortexlabs?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Ubitus, the the largest GPU cloud in Asia accepts CTXC as a payment
currency in its cloud…

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Mp6EeKJdv-
lHEcvlr6I1iw.jpeg)](https://medium.com/cortexlabs/ubitus-the-the-largest-gpu-
cloud-in-asia-accepts-ctxc-as-a-payment-currency-in-its-cloud-
computing-c8812e59fac6?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![JPool.one](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Ek-
QQII6Zhy22j6kxuDySw.png)](https://jpoolsolana.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[JPool.one

](https://jpoolsolana.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Solana Metaverses

](https://jpoolsolana.medium.com/solana-
metaverses-d83189030b05?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Dan Thomas - The Crypto Copy
King](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*79xDUXw-
mkhoc-0c04NrAg.png)](https://medium.com/@thecryptocopyking?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Dan Thomas - The Crypto Copy King

](https://medium.com/@thecryptocopyking?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[The Crypto Copy King

](https://medium.com/thecryptocopyking?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## What could kill blockchain? 3 big challenges it has to overcome.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*fZ3Q0sB7XFVZgz0_a5HDeg.jpeg)](https://medium.com/thecryptocopyking/what-
could-kill-blockchain-3-big-challenges-it-has-to-
overcome-d3a9e64eb588?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Rhizom Foundation](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*8PSr_-
EmKSwYGVWQ1CN27w.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@RhizomFoundation?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Rhizom Foundation

](https://medium.com/@RhizomFoundation?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

in

[Rhizom Foundation

](https://medium.com/rhizomfoundation?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Rhizom: Connecting the world through traceability

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*jHuJtzhZtLC02iiG.png)](https://medium.com/rhizomfoundation/rhizom-
connecting-the-world-through-
traceability-6c72a7a58814?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](https://medium.com/?source=post_page-----
20cd72551f2e--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
20cd72551f2e--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
20cd72551f2e--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
20cd72551f2e--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
20cd72551f2e--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----20cd72551f2e--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----20cd72551f2e--------------------------------)

[Get
started](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fsecret-
zone-making-privacy-one-with-the-cosmos-20cd72551f2e&source=post_page
--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![James
Waugh](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/2*Q4zRpsuf4GKFMEuZjWyC_w.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@jwaup)

[

## James Waugh

](https://medium.com/@jwaup)

94 Followers

multidimensional human #cre8

[Follow](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fsubscribe%2Fuser%2F4ae4fe949e3c&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fsecret-
zone-making-privacy-one-with-the-
cosmos-20cd72551f2e&user=James+Waugh&userId=4ae4fe949e3c&source=post_page-4ae4fe949e3c
-------------------------follow_profile-----------)

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fusers%2F4ae4fe949e3c%2Flazily-
enable-writer-
subscription&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fsecret-
zone-making-privacy-one-with-the-
cosmos-20cd72551f2e&user=James+Waugh&userId=4ae4fe949e3c&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Matrix](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*_k4xYSoJST04s6GS-4kjww.png)](https://medium.com/@matrix_qzx?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------0926b889_66ec_49d0_8c77_3742c866a897-------)

[Matrix

](https://medium.com/@matrix_qzx?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------0926b889_66ec_49d0_8c77_3742c866a897-------)

## After Terra

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*RlM8J2bveuS6M0oM2kl9nA.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@matrix_qzx/after-
terra-ac9f16106b52?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
0926b889_66ec_49d0_8c77_3742c866a897-------)

[[![Quantdoge
Publications](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*x_CnkoDDHfXMsB0DEZ6ngQ.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@chainstrat?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------0926b889_66ec_49d0_8c77_3742c866a897-------)

[Quantdoge Publications

](https://medium.com/@chainstrat?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------0926b889_66ec_49d0_8c77_3742c866a897-------)

## What is Osmosis Zone ($OSMO) and Superfluid Staking ?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*5JsmYyYa7VAgdNtixFJNtA.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@chainstrat/what-
is-osmosis-zone-osmo-and-superfluid-staking-
bf9d7168d100?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
0926b889_66ec_49d0_8c77_3742c866a897-------)

[[![Yanda](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Vaz-BxRFWWXh-
Qu4qkMK1g.png)](https://yandaprotocol.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------0926b889_66ec_49d0_8c77_3742c866a897-------)

[Yanda

](https://yandaprotocol.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------0926b889_66ec_49d0_8c77_3742c866a897-------)

## ATOM — Cosmos

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*2cL7xl_TSG62L9NqC7gEHw.jpeg)](https://yandaprotocol.medium.com/atom-
cosmos-75c5ad8e7b31?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
0926b889_66ec_49d0_8c77_3742c866a897-------)

[[![Federico
Scarionati](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*vhHjQ4BOYMSRGbU-
yZgXMA.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@fscarionati?source=read_next_recirc---------
3---------------------0926b889_66ec_49d0_8c77_3742c866a897-------)

[Federico Scarionati

](https://medium.com/@fscarionati?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------0926b889_66ec_49d0_8c77_3742c866a897-------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------0926b889_66ec_49d0_8c77_3742c866a897-------)

## The Cosmonaut Quest — Week6

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*aA-
SlQ5is441tea70dZJ7g.png)](https://medium.com/coinmonks/the-cosmonaut-quest-
week6-fc64cee588d4?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
0926b889_66ec_49d0_8c77_3742c866a897-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](https://medium.com/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

