Close

Menu

  * [About Us](https://blog.sigmaprime.io/pages/about-us.html)

[![Blog Logo](./imgs/blog/sigp-logo-black.png)](https://blog.sigmaprime.io/)
__Menu

# Seeking an Executive Assistant (Part-Time or Full-Time)

[Mehdi Zerouali](https://blog.sigmaprime.io/author/mehdi-zerouali.html) | Wed
08 July 2020 Updated on Wed 08 July 2020 Estimated read time: 2 min

_Sigma Prime is hiring an executive assistant to support our leadership team
and perform a variety of administrative tasks. If you're curious about the
cybersecurity and blockchain worlds, and would like to join a fast-growing
tech company, this might be the right opportunity for you!_

## The Company

**Sigma Prime** is an information security consultancy who provides specialist
distributed systems expertise. We are a team of developers, researchers, and
security engineers who have come together with the purpose of building a
secure and decentralised world.

We provide security assessment services to the most prominent projects in the
blockchain space, and are also building an open source blockchain client,
[Lighthouse](https://github.com/sigp/lighthouse), to power the upcoming
Ethereum 2.0 network.

## The Role

We are looking for someone to help us accelerate our growth in a sustainable
way by supporting our co-founders in the day-to-day operations of the company.
This role is the first non-technical role we advertise and as such, the
related duties and responsibilities are expected to be quite broad:

  * Help organise client meetings and take meeting minutes
  * Provide assistance throughout client engagement scoping activities
  * Assist in scheduling client engagements and managing consultant schedule
  * Interface with our bookkeeper and tax agent to help keep our books in order
  * Invoice our clients
  * Occasionally assist with travel booking
  * Occasionally help with marketing, recruitment and business development activities

You may fit the role if you have:

  * Excellent verbal and written communications skills
  * Familiarity with Google Apps (Google Docs, Gmail, Google Calendar, etc.)
  * Great organisational skills
  * A genuine interest in the tech industry, particularly the cybersecurity and/or blockchain space
  * A high degree of professionalism
  * A keen eye for detail

## Location

Sigma Prime is based in Sydney, Australia, and while local candidates are
preferred, remote work is an essential part of our company culture. Those who
work remotely still form an integral part of the team. The ideal candidate
will be located in a time zone within two to three hours of Australian Eastern
Standard Time (GMT+10).

## Apply

If this role sounds suitable for you, please answer a few questions on [this
form](https://forms.gle/uS1a3Vm43LTQKmEW7).

Alternatively, feel free to send your application via email to
[careers@sigmaprime.io](mailto:careers@sigmaprime.io).

[ __Twitter ](https://twitter.com/share?text=Seeking an Executive Assistant
\(Part-Time or Full-Time\)&url=https://blog.sigmaprime.io/executive-
assistant.html) [ __Facebook
](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https://blog.sigmaprime.io/executive-
assistant.html) [ __Google+
](https://plus.google.com/share?url=https://blog.sigmaprime.io/executive-
assistant.html)

[job](https://blog.sigmaprime.io/tag/job.html)[executive
assistant](https://blog.sigmaprime.io/tag/executive-
assistant.html)[cybersecurity](https://blog.sigmaprime.io/tag/cybersecurity.html)

![Mehdi Zerouali](https://blog.sigmaprime.io/imgs/authors/mz.jpg)

#### [Mehdi Zerouali](https://blog.sigmaprime.io/author/mehdi-zerouali.html)

Mehdi is a co-founder and a director of Sigma Prime. He is a penetration
tester particularly interested in decentralised systems, with a strong focus
on the Ethereum platform.

__Sydney, Australia

