[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![Seeking
Whispers](/static/7e7f1630ed228fca185fb45eafd04c85/2a43b/whisper.jpg)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

## Seeking Whispers

By [Mihai Alisie](/blog/author/mihai-alisie/)

·

February 23, 2017

Greetings everyone! Following the energetic last couple of weeks, filled with
hard work and emotions, we bring you a new AKASHA release named _Seeking
Whispers_. The latest 0.5 version contains multiple bug fixes and introduces
new features such as Whisper based searching, easy identity backup, mentions
and ... _drums in the background_ ... **GIF support!**

Among the bugs fixed we also squashed the famous _" link of death"_ bug which
was stopping users from publishing and saving drafts containing embedded links
(sorry about that one -_-;)

The Whisper search experiment featured in this release is very interesting
since it enables **truly private searches by not revealing the identity of the
person making the request.** As far as I am aware, we might be the first ones
using Whisper for this purpose and from our experience it seems like there's
real potential here for enhancing user privacy online - **big kudos go to
Marius** for the idea and implementation.

Following the initial results of this searching experiment we plan to expand
it also for people and the rest of the sections that will be rolled out in the
near-mid future.

_Whispers everywhere - shh!_

On another note, we reached a historical milestone **over 1000 entries
published in a completely decentralized fashion using smart contracts+IPFS**
as we are **rapidly approaching 2000 identities created on AKASHA**. Yaaay!

\o/ \o/ \o/ \o/ \o/ \o/ \o/ \o/ \o/ \o/

All in all, it feels like we are gaining momentum and we'd like to thank _you_
, the _Community_ , for this! All your support and encouraging words motivate
us and really brings out the best in us!

Moving on, you can find a few screenshots exemplifying the latest features
bellow:

#### Whisper based search

[ ![Search](/static/c8e84e60328ebb767522616ba2c789d8/1c72d/save1.jpg)
](/static/c8e84e60328ebb767522616ba2c789d8/9aa5e/save1.jpg)

[ ![Search](/static/df38c45f3282e3419091fec1d86b4c70/1c72d/save2.jpg)
](/static/df38c45f3282e3419091fec1d86b4c70/0d31c/save2.jpg)

* * *

#### Mentions in entries and comments (chat coming soon)

[ ![Mentions](/static/21f953f8abbb1e370da1809cf97cde65/1c72d/mention-
entry.jpg) ](/static/21f953f8abbb1e370da1809cf97cde65/0d31c/mention-entry.jpg)

* * *

#### Identity backup

[ ![Backup](/static/3ccf23c4a4e31e7a3764b7008e0ea1ee/1c72d/backup1.jpg)
](/static/3ccf23c4a4e31e7a3764b7008e0ea1ee/24416/backup1.jpg)

[ ![Backup](/static/04adb5caba67d551d9a36459a6c4d12e/1c72d/backup2.jpg)
](/static/04adb5caba67d551d9a36459a6c4d12e/8ec0a/backup2.jpg)

* * *

#### Profile hover card from chat for easy tipping

[ ![Hover chat](/static/26108baf17f978ee0c3de05c6cae1c60/1c72d/hover-chat.jpg)
](/static/26108baf17f978ee0c3de05c6cae1c60/9aa5e/hover-chat.jpg)

* * *

#### GIFs, GIFs, GIFs

[ ![GIFS](/static/25f98634d2835de1ed1a00fec1cf9571/1c72d/gif-time.jpg)
](/static/25f98634d2835de1ed1a00fec1cf9571/0d31c/gif-time.jpg)

* * *

Without further ado, we bring to you the latest download links:

#### Instructions For Windows Pioneers:

  * Download the [.exe installer](https://github.com/AkashaProject/Alpha/releases/download/0.5.2/AKASHA-win-x64-0.5.2.exe) or the [.zip archive](https://github.com/AkashaProject/Alpha/releases/download/0.5.2/AKASHA-win-x64-0.5.2.zip) from our [official alpha GitHub repo](https://github.com/AkashaProject/Alpha/releases/tag/0.5.2)
  * Run the installer or extract the files contained in the .zip file
  * Open the AKASHA dapp and synchronize with the network
  * Create an AKASHA identity (profile)
  * Log in and enjoy AKASHA

#### Instructions For Mac Pioneers:

  * Download the [.dmg installer](https://github.com/AkashaProject/Alpha/releases/download/0.5.2/AKASHA-macosx-0.5.2.dmg) or the [.zip archive](https://github.com/AkashaProject/Alpha/releases/download/0.5.2/AKASHA-macosx-0.5.2.zip) from our [official alpha GitHub repo](https://github.com/AkashaProject/Alpha/releases/tag/0.5.2)
  * Run the installer or extract the files contained in the .zip file
  * Open the AKASHA dapp and synchronize with the network
  * Create an AKASHA identity
  * Log in and enjoy AKASHA

#### Instructions For Linux Pioneers:

  * Download the [.deb installer](https://github.com/AkashaProject/Alpha/releases/download/0.5.2/AKASHA-linux-x64-0.5.2.deb) or the [.zip archive](https://github.com/AkashaProject/Alpha/releases/download/0.5.2/AKASHA-linux-x64-0.5.2.zip) from our [official alpha GitHub repo](https://github.com/AkashaProject/Alpha/releases/tag/0.5.2)
  * Run the installer or extract the files contained in the .zip file
  * Open the AKASHA dapp and synchronize with the network
  * Create an AKASHA identity
  * Log in and enjoy AKASHA

Just as with the last releases, the general rule of thumb for is `"If
something breaks, refresh the dapp."` Since it is an alpha, it comes with all
the instability associated with early experiments - just as the first flight
attempts were not necessarily safe or comfortable.

We're looking forward to hearing your thoughts and we hope you will enjoy this
release!

Please note that following this release we want to focus on refactoring the
code and prepare things for the next stage leading to open sourcing AKASHA.
That being said, expect a slow down in new features added in the coming weeks
but be sure that it will be worth it in the long run.

Thank you for your understanding! ^_^

And to conclude, this is a short video covering our journey to EDCON in Paris
while development on this release was taking place in our Bucharest hacklab -
**BIG UP for the amazing work done by this amazing team!** The trip was
inspiring and marked our first conference at which we presented AKASHA -
**many thanks, again, to everyone for the warm welcome!**

The full recording of the AKASHA presentation [can be found
here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3sCFUnfkiLI)

See you on [AKASHA](https://beta.akasha.world/)!

* _Note that the downloading links have been updated with the latest 0.5.2 release, Continued Mendings (March 10th 2017)_

[News](/blog/category/news/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2017/02/23/seeking-
whispers)

