#  [ Unenumerated ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/)

An unending variety of topics

## Monday, May 25, 2015

###  Small-game fallacies

A small-game fallacy occurs when game theorists, economists, or others trying
to apply game-theoretic or microeconomic techniques to real-world problems,
posit a simple, and thus cognizable, interaction, under a very limited and
precise set of rules, whereas real-world analogous situations take place
within longer-term and vastly more complicated games with many more players:
"the games of life".  Interactions between small games and large games infect
most works of game theory, and much of microeconomics, often rendering such
analyses useless or worse than useless as a guide for how the "players" will
behave in real circumstances. These fallacies tend to be particularly
egregious when "economic imperialists" try to apply the techniques of
economics to domains beyond the traditional efficient-markets domain of
economics, attempting to bring economic theory to bear to describe law,
politics, security protocols, or a wide variety of other institutions that
behave very differently from efficient markets. However as we shall see,
small-game fallacies can sometimes arise even in the analysis of some very
market-like institutions, such as "prediction markets."  
  
Most studies in experimental economics suffer from small-game/large-game
effects. Unless these experiments are very securely anonymized, in a way the
players actually trust, and in a way the players have learned to adapt to,
overriding their moral instincts -- an extremely rare circumstance, despite
many efforts to achieve this -- large-game effects quickly creep in, rendering
the results often very misleading, sometimes practically the opposite of the
actual behavior of people in analogous real-life situations. A common example:
it may be narrowly rational and in accord with theory to "cheat", "betray", or
otherwise play a narrowly selfish game, but if the players may be interacting
with each other after the experimenters' game is over, the perceived or actual
reputational effects in the larger "games of life", ongoing between the
players in subsequent weeks or years, may easily exceed the meager rewards
doled out by the experimenters to act selfishly in the small game. Even if the
players can somehow be convinced that they will remain complete strangers to
each other indefinitely into the future, our moral instincts generally evolved
to play larger "games of life", not one-off games, nor anonymous games, nor
games with pseudonyms of strictly limited duration, with the result that
behaving according to theory must be learned: our default behavior is very
different. (This explains, why, for example, economics students typically play
in a more narrowly self-interested way, i.e. more according to the simple
theories of economics, than other kinds of students).  
  
Small-game/large-game effects are not limited to reputational incentives to
play nicer: moral instincts and motivations learned in larger games also
include tribal unity against perceived opponents, revenge, implied or actual
threats of future coercion, and other effects causing much behavior to be
worse than selfish, and these too can spill over between the larger and
smaller games (when, for example, teams from rival schools or nations are
pitted against each other in economic experiments). Moral instincts, though
quite real, should not be construed as necessarily or even usually being
actually morally superior to various kinds of learned morals, whether learned
in economics class or in the schools of religion or philosophy.  
  
Small-game/large-game problems can also occur in auditing, when audits look at
a particular system and fail to take into account interactions that can occur
outside their system of financial controls, rendering the net interactions
very different from what simply auditing the particular system would suggest.
A common fraud is for trades to be made outside the scope of the audit, "off
the books", rendering the books themselves very misleading as to the overall
net state of affairs.  
  
Similarly, small-game/large-game problems often arise when software or
security architects focus on an economics methodology, focusing on the
interactions occurring within the defined architecture and failing to properly
take into account (often because it is prohibitively difficult to do so) the
wide variety of possible acts occurring outside the system and the resulting
changes, often radical, to incentives within the system. For example, the
incentive compatibility of certain interactions within an architecture can
quickly disappear or reverse when opposite trades can be made outside the
system (such as hedging or even more-than-offsetting a position that by itself
would otherwise create a very different incentive within the system), or when
larger political or otherwise coercive motivations and threats occur outside
the analyzed incentive system, changing the incentives of players acting
within the system in unpredictable ways. Security protocols always consist of
at least two layers: a "dry layer" that can be analyzed by the objective
mathematics of computer science, and a "wet layer" that consists of the often
unpredictable net large-game motivations of the protocols' users.  These
should not be confused, nor should the false precision of mathematical
economic theories be confused with the objective accuracy of computer science
theories, which are based on the mathematics of computer architecture and
algorithms and hold regardless of users' incentives and motivations.  
  
A related error is the pure-information fallacy: treating an economic
institution purely as an information system, accounting only for market-
proximate incentives to contribute information via trading decisions, while
neglecting how that market necessarily also changes players' incentives to act
outside of that market. For example, a currently popular view of proposition
bets, the "prediction markets" view, often treats prop bets or idea futures as
purely information-distribution mechanisms, with the only incentives supposed
as the benign incentive to profit by adding useful information to the market.
This fails to take into account the incentives such markets create to act
differently _outside_ the market.  A "prediction market" is always also one
that changes incentives outside that market: a prediction market automatically
creates parallel incentives to bring about the predicted event. For example a
prediction market on a certain person's death is also an assassination market.
Which is why a pre-Gulf-War-II DARPA-sponsored experimental "prediction
market" included a prop bet on Saddam Hussein's death, but excluded such
trading on any other, more politically correct world leaders. A sufficiently
large market predicting an individual's death is also, necessarily, an
assassination market, and similarly other "prediction" markets are also _act_
markets, changing incentives to act outside that market to bring about the
predicted events.

Posted by  [ Nick Szabo ](https://www.blogger.com/profile/16820399856274245684
"author profile") at  [9:36
PM](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/small-game-fallacies.html
"permanent link") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon18_email.gif)
](https://www.blogger.com/email-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=6477623700217194629 "Email Post") [
![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon18_edit_allbkg.gif)
](https://www.blogger.com/post-
edit.g?blogID=17908317&postID=6477623700217194629&from=pencil "Edit Post")

[Email This](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=6477623700217194629&target=email "Email
This")[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=6477623700217194629&target=blog
"BlogThis!")[Share to Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=6477623700217194629&target=twitter "Share to
Twitter")[Share to Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=6477623700217194629&target=facebook "Share to
Facebook")[Share to Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=6477623700217194629&target=pinterest "Share to
Pinterest")

#### 15 comments:

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

Anonymous said...

    

This is pure gold. Prediction market may become assassination market

     [ 12:00 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/small-game-fallacies.html?showComment=1432666837297#c327251981161943837 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=327251981161943837 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

brownboi said...

    

Things are moving quickly...  
  
https://medium.com/plain-text/using-scicast-to-find-answers-in-the-bitcoin-
block-size-debate-46764cb50e0b  
  
FYI I'm in full agreement with Szabo. Combinatorial prediction markets, never
mind mild futarchy, haven't been proven in real life situations. Bitcoin and
cryptocurrencies are virgin territory as they are. No need to further
complicate things.  
  
Lets handle this the way the early evolution of the web was handled!

     [ 2:15 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/small-game-fallacies.html?showComment=1432674938634#c874885193614967985 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=874885193614967985 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/08026843262269453503)

[Unknown](https://www.blogger.com/profile/08026843262269453503) said...

    

While a "prediction market on Death A" provides a payout to Group X upon A's
death (Group X being those who correctly bet that A would die), an
assassination market needs to provide the payout to a specific individual Z
(usually as only Z knows the date of A's death). In a prediction market, one
cannot control or restrict membership in Group X, which makes the incentives
different: A rival assassin can spy on Z and steal his payout by front running
Z's trade, A can bet on his own death and then fake it -profiting from his
enemy's contributions-, Z's co-conspirators can wait for the pro-death trade
to go through - make a (now-wildly-profitable) pro-life trade - and then rat
out Z to the authorities in exchange for legal immunity. These counterexamples
all exploit the unrestricted entrance into the prediction market's Group X.  
  
Moreover, consider two large prediction markets instead of one: the first, "A
to be assassinated sometime in May 2015?", the second, "Someone to try to
assassinate A (successfully or otherwise) sometime in May 2015?". What are the
incentives now? The more money on M1="No", the more likely someone is to
attempt to assassinate (M2="Yes" should increase), warning the victim of
danger, and giving bettors a way to profit by thwarting the assassination
itself (but not the assassination-attempt).  
  
I'd go as far to say that, by narrowing your focus to a single prediction
market, you've made the very fallacy you describe in your post.  
  
-Paul 

     [ 5:30 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/small-game-fallacies.html?showComment=1432686627774#c6317008157862594647 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=6317008157862594647 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/13141983045085515331)

[HostFat](https://www.blogger.com/profile/13141983045085515331) said...

    

@Paul  
Is it possible that more than one prediction market will survive?  
I think that it will be the same as for currencies (on the long run at least)  
Are there incentives to stay on different prediction markets? (I mean, if they
give the same features ...)

     [ 4:58 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/small-game-fallacies.html?showComment=1432771123331#c8595300646263191447 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=8595300646263191447 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/08026843262269453503)

[Unknown](https://www.blogger.com/profile/08026843262269453503) said...

    

@HostFat  
  
I think you've gotten a little confused. InTrade.com was a single website, but
it contained many, many different prediction markets. There may be only one
"prediction marketplace" (ie, one website [InTrade], or one protocol
[Truthcoin]), but it would be very bizarre to imagine only one prediction
market existing. That would be a little like saying "people can only ever
trade shares of one corporation (Apple, for example)".

     [ 6:15 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/small-game-fallacies.html?showComment=1432775706133#c3230057887605559020 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=3230057887605559020 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

Anonymous said...

    

This needs to be applied to Game of Thrones immediately

     [ 8:48 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/small-game-fallacies.html?showComment=1432784938141#c1795413974689487853 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1795413974689487853 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/04537529816304128000)

[shah8](https://www.blogger.com/profile/04537529816304128000) said...

    

When you see a bunch of public intellectual singing a certain tune that rings
dubious to you, but beneficial to a state--predicting how another state is
just going to lose, lose, lose in the near future because of x, y, z (made up
bad faith stuff), that's coming from the stuff Szabo is talking about up
there.  
  
For instance, the anti-Greek chorus. There are several themes used over the
times, however, let's point out the early May theme of how Greece was going to
inevitably capitulate completely, and poor, stupid, and feckless Syriaza was
going to be tossed over by the voters they overpromised to. In neither case
was that ever likely. The international chorus was there to rattle/communicate
with institutional stakeholders. No big if it doesn't work, any more than
icing the kicker at the end of an American football game.

     [ 10:12 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/small-game-fallacies.html?showComment=1432789927055#c3051689555371215594 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=3051689555371215594 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

Anonymous said...

    

For a real world "prediction market that changes incentives outside that
market" with $billions at stake, look no further than CDS vs underlying
credit. Here's a good place to start:  
http://www.bloombergview.com/articles/2014-12-18/radioshack-is-running-on-
credit-derivatives  
  
Or this:  
http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2013-10-22/blackstone-unit-wins-in-no-
lose-codere-trade-corporate-finance  
  
Just stumbled across this blog. The Assassination Market quip killed me. Thank
you.

     [ 8:07 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/small-game-fallacies.html?showComment=1432868849247#c130711889835802983 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=130711889835802983 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/07789967181929309807)

[Kyle](https://www.blogger.com/profile/07789967181929309807) said...

    

The "Assassination market" has been around since the early 90s (see Jim Bell
and [Wikipedia.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assassination_market))

     [ 9:53 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/small-game-fallacies.html?showComment=1432918412798#c2737546980503048662 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=2737546980503048662 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

Anonymous said...

    

Nassim Taleb calls that the ludic fallacy
http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ludic_fallacy

     [ 12:56 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/small-game-fallacies.html?showComment=1433188570176#c4352196506111816493 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=4352196506111816493 "Delete Comment")

[![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif) ](http://iang.org/negotiation/)

[Iang](http://iang.org/negotiation/) said...

    

Any market cannot be separated from feedback into the price of the good
itself, a sort of Heisenberg Uncertainty Response. The more a market attracts
interest from less interested parties, the less it predicts some 'true'
reflection of the fundamentals.  
  
Prediction markets become assassination markets, but they can also becomes a
disinformation market. Saddam Hussein could have bet on the book for his death
either up or down for different purposes. Up if he wanted to convince people
he was dead (and please stop trying to kill me) or down to convince people he
wasn't worth killing.  
  
Economist Charles Goodhart of the Bank of England postulated that any
measurement of the currency intended as a control became like a corset and
activity would bulge out elsewhere, rendering the control useless. Likewise a
market can become the driver not the intermediary. We see this with certain
commodities markets where the paper issuance is orders of magnitude greater
than the physical, and prop trading starts to drive the price away from
physical fundamentals.

     [ 5:59 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/small-game-fallacies.html?showComment=1433293177859#c4900224034431150200 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=4900224034431150200 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

dhi25 said...

    

Look at what happened with "The Interview" movie. Apparently even making a
movie about a fictional assassination is considered enough to incentivize
assassination in some people's eyes. And ironically Kim Jong-un's (alleged)
reaction could have caused him to be more likely to be killed. Real world
feedback loops quickly become entangled in unpredictable ways.

     [ 9:53 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/small-game-fallacies.html?showComment=1433307184058#c2530656169430564290 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=2530656169430564290 "Delete Comment")

[![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif) ](http://exposure-4-all.com)

[Stewart Harding](http://exposure-4-all.com) said...

    

It's nice to read an article that isn't just pictures or misguidance from some
ageing hippie. Thanks for sharing.

     [ 6:23 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/small-game-fallacies.html?showComment=1433467428894#c6444274344761350847 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=6444274344761350847 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/00178503988607451636)

[camp](https://www.blogger.com/profile/00178503988607451636) said...

    

I don't see how you stop the assassination aspect.  
  
Let's use the example of public election results that is often used when
discussing prediction markets. The bets focus on the following question: Will
Hillary Clinton be inaugurated as president in 2016?  
  
A dead person can't be sworn in.  
  
Most questions (perhaps all) are subject to an outside attack in this way. I
don't see how this issue can be overcome. But it's not the death of prediction
markets imo. Those are useful enough (and effectively inevitable) that it's
more likely that we'll transition away from violence as a species than avoid
mass adoption of prediction markets.

     [ 5:15 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/small-game-fallacies.html?showComment=1435882529465#c7656188972405360155 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=7656188972405360155 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/03727573717462028189)

[Zawy](https://www.blogger.com/profile/03727573717462028189) said...

    

As in the prediction market problem, expectations of a selfish or cooperative
environment results in a selfish or cooperative environment. Hence it's a
social disaster to philosophically think in terms of "selfish genes" or
selfish individuals as capable of originating selfish forces independent of
their origins. The global environment is the only source of physical forces
(from potential energy gradients) that guides the creation and sustenance of
individuals and genes. Information creation in the specifics of markets is the
result of a larger, governing environment. The error is not limited to
economics and evolution, but goes back to their fundament, physics: Newton's
law is not fundamental because it allows for non-conservative forces (mainly
friction) which are not fundamental (see Feynman, "Least Action"). This
results in the belief that the thermodynamics 2nd law is "entropy is always
increased" which has been supplanted by the standard model and direct
observation that entropy in large expanding volumes of the Universe is
constant (see Weinberg's "The First 3 Minutes") which means all small open
volumes of the Universe (e.g., the Earth's Surface) must have decreasing
entropy that is emitting entropy to "allow" the Universe to expand (entropy is
conserved).  
  
The error in thinking the Universe is doomed to a heat death erringly
justifies a philosophy of selfishness.

     [ 4:36 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/small-game-fallacies.html?showComment=1456662997885#c2888434134168927828 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=2888434134168927828 "Delete Comment")

[Post a
Comment](https://www.blogger.com/comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=6477623700217194629)

[Newer Post](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-
mess-and-some-ways.html "Newer Post") [Older
Post](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/12/the-dawn-of-trustworthy-
computing.html "Older Post") [Home](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/)

Subscribe to: [Post Comments
(Atom)](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/feeds/6477623700217194629/comments/default)

## Pages

  * [Home](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/)

## About Me

[ Nick Szabo ](https://www.blogger.com/profile/16820399856274245684)

    "A premier thinker about history, law and economics, and the lessons they have for security." -- Adam Shostack, [Emergent Chaos ](http://www.emergentchaos.com/archives/2005/12/nick_szabo_blog.html)   
  
"Szabo comes out with these essays that leave me in awe." -- [Brian
Dunbar](http://space4commerce.blogspot.com/2011/06/tab-clearing_14.html)  
  
"Reading material that is eclectic, challenging and endlessly fascinating."
\-- Sean McGrath,
[Propylon](http://seanmcgrath.blogspot.com/2004_05_09_seanmcgrath_archive.html)  
  
"Like most blogs worth my attention, this blog is updated only infrequently.
That is because the authors of blogs worth my attention only post when they
have something to say that is true, relevant and not already known by their
audience. Most of the human race does not have the skill to know when an idea
has these three properties. The skill is particularly rare in the fields of
politics and economics, which is why this blog is such a rare and valuable
thing." \-- [Richard Hollerith](http://dl4.jottit.com/)  
  

[View my complete
profile](https://www.blogger.com/profile/16820399856274245684)

## Blog Archive

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2018 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2018/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2018/03/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2017 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/03/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/02/) (2)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2016 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/03/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/02/) (1)

  * [ ▼ ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2015 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/10/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/) (1)
    * [ ▼ ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/) (1)
      * [Small-game fallacies](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/small-game-fallacies.html)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2014 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/10/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/07/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2013 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/11/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/08/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/07/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2012 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/) (8)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/10/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/08/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/) (4)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2011 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/) (12)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/06/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/05/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/02/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/01/) (4)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2010 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/) (9)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/10/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/09/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/02/) (2)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2009 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/) (29)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/11/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/10/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/09/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/08/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/06/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/05/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/04/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/01/) (3)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2008 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/) (55)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/12/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/10/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/09/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/08/) (9)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/07/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/06/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/05/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/04/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/03/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/02/) (5)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/01/) (3)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2007 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/) (47)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/10/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/09/) (8)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/08/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/07/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/06/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/05/) (8)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/04/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/03/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/02/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/01/) (3)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2006 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/) (130)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/12/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/11/) (7)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/10/) (15)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/09/) (15)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/08/) (20)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/07/) (5)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/06/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/05/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/04/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/03/) (11)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/02/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/01/) (26)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2005 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/) (44)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/12/) (16)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/11/) (5)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/10/) (23)

|  
  
---|---  
  
Simple theme. Powered by [Blogger](https://www.blogger.com).

  *[9:36 PM]: 2015-05-25T21:36:00-07:00

