Toggle Navigation [ [![Concourse Open](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)
](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)

  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ConcourseOpen "Twitter")
  * [Discord](https://discord.gg/mzDxADE "Discord")
  * [Projects](https://concourseopen.com "Projects")

## Settle Portfolio

Modular portfolio management supporting Digital Asset and Crypto Derivatives.

Open App

So Long ConcourseQ

# So Long ConcourseQ

##### February 3, 2020

![](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/mantas-
hesthaven-_g1WdcKcV3w-unsplash-1024x733.jpg)

As ICO fever heated up in 2017, Ethereum became a magnet for unscrupulous
actors looking to trade empty promises for a quick profit. Without a reliably
objective source of info about new projects and token sales, it was getting
harder and harder to tell a scam from a legitimate project.

And so in mid-2017, we launched ConcourseQ, the first platform for community-
sourced ICO due diligence. We committed to ensuring ConcourseQ would remain
open, fair, and objective, and our plan has always been to keep it going as
long as it provided value to the community.

But as we settle into 2020, the ICO craze is behind us, and the community has
come together to reject scams and fraud. That means it's time to say goodbye
to ConcourseQ.

We hope ConcourseQ helped some of you make more informed decisions (or save
money) over the past 2.5 years. ConcourseQ issued over 300 warnings, received
dozens of legal threats, and was directly responsible for 2 ICOs quitting the
internet. And from what we could tell, a number of other projects were less
than thrilled to see the truth about their ICOs dragged into the light by the
community.

ConcourseQ never collected revenue; its success came from everyone who
contributed due diligence research on ConcourseQ, offered encouragement or a
kind word, or pretended to chuckle at our Terrible Token Tuesday jokes. We're
grateful to the entire community for all of that. And special thanks goes to
our Qfellows, whose tireless research helped set the standard for due
diligence reports on ConcourseQ.

Though we're closing the chapter on ConcourseQ, its core values continue to
guide us as we build tools to help improve the Ethereum experience for
everyone. Come see what we're up to (or just say hi) on
[Discord](https://discord.gg/y7qSf4A).

Thank you again from all us at Concourse Open Community.

* * *

##### ‚õ∞ [Concourse Open Community‚Äã](https://concourseopen.com/)

##### ‚õΩ [ETH Gas Station](https://ethgasstation.info/)

##### üêø [DEX.AG](https://dex.ag/)

##### üçá [DeFi Pulse](https://defipulse.com/)

##### [üé£ ](http://data.concourseopen.com)[DeFi Pulse
Data](http://data.defipulse.com)

##### üí∏ [Whisp](https://whisp.money/)

##### üî• [Rek.to](https://rek.to/)

## Post navigation

[Previous

DEX.AG: 5x Lower Slippage with Real Time Prices

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-5x-lower-slippage-real-time-prices/)

[ Next

DEX.AG: Expert Trading Mode with Charts

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-expert-trading-beta/)

Search for: Search

#### Recent Posts

  * [DEX.AG Unveils User Balances Page, Transaction History Page, and many other UX/UI Upgrades Inspired by Feedback](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-ui-upgrades-balances-history/)
  * [Push it to the Limit with DEX.AG - NEW Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and Connect Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-limit-orders/)
  * [DEX.AG Daredevil Update: Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and New Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-daredevil-update-limit-orders/)
  * [Trade DEXes like a Pro with DEX.AG - real time charts, prices, and order books](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-pro-trading/)
  * [DEX.AG: Expert Trading Mode with Charts](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-expert-trading-beta/)

#### Archives

  * [March 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/03/)
  * [February 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/02/)
  * [January 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/01/)
  * [December 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/12/)
  * [November 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/11/)
  * [October 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/10/)
  * [September 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/09/)
  * [August 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/08/)
  * [July 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/07/)
  * [June 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/06/)
  * [May 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/05/)
  * [April 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/04/)

#### Categories

  * [Business](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/business/)
  * [Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/community/)
  * [Concourse Open Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-community/)
  * [Concourse Open Constructions](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-constructions/)
  * [ConcourseQ](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourseq/)
  * [DAO](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dao/)
  * [Developer Docs](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/developer-docs/)
  * [DEX](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex/)
  * [DEX.AG](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex-ag/)
  * [Ecosystem](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/ecosystem/)
  * [Exchange](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchange/)
  * [Exchanges](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchanges/)
  * [Explainers](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/explainers/)
  * [Humans](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/humans/)
  * [New Features](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/new-features/)
  * [Protocol](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/protocol/)
  * [Technology](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/technology/)
  * [Terrible Token Tuesday](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/terrible-token-tuesday/)
  * [Trading](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/trading/)
  * [Whisp](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/whisp/)

#### Meta

  * [Log in](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-login.php)
  * [Entries feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/feed/)
  * [Comments feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/comments/feed/)
  * [WordPress.org](https://wordpress.org/)

[![Settle](/blog/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com)

(C) 2021 Concourse Open

