[Konrad S. Graf](/)

  * [About](/)
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)
  * Evolutionary Health [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health) [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)
  * [Translation](/translation)
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)
  * [Blog](/blog1)
  * [Contact](/contact)

# [Konrad S. Graf](/)

  * [About](/)/
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)/
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)/
  * Evolutionary Health/

    * [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health)
    * [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)

  * [Translation](/translation)/
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)/
  * [Blog](/blog1)/
  * [Contact](/contact)/

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf) [
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A) [
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

# [Konrad S. Graf](/)

# Blog

# [Konrad S. Graf](/)

  * [About](/)/
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)/
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)/
  * Evolutionary Health/

    * [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health)
    * [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)

  * [Translation](/translation)/
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)/
  * [Blog](/blog1)/
  * [Contact](/contact)/

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf) [
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A) [
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

[October 01, 2019](/blog1/2019/10/1/sound-money-strikes-at-the-root-a-review-
essay-on-the-bitcoin-standard)

# [Sound Money Strikes at the Root: A Review Essay on The Bitcoin
Standard](/blog1/2019/10/1/sound-money-strikes-at-the-root-a-review-essay-on-
the-bitcoin-standard)

[October 01, 2019](/blog1/2019/10/1/sound-money-strikes-at-the-root-a-review-
essay-on-the-bitcoin-standard)/ [Konrad
Graf](/blog1?author=5720adbcb6aa6055fa279727)

## 1.   The gold standard book on Bitcoin

[ _The Bitcoin Standard: The Decentralized Alternative to Central
Banking_](https://www.wiley.com/en-
us/The+Bitcoin+Standard%3A+The+Decentralized+Alternative+to+Central+Banking-p-9781119473862)
(2018) by Saifedean Ammous is the gold standard book on Bitcoin. Instead of
viewing Bitcoin news in terms of days, week, or even years, it views Bitcoin
in the perspective of centuries of monetary history.

In considering this book, I revisited my own economic and legal-theory
analyses of Bitcoin, which for the most part cover harmonious, though
distinct, territory. The result is a _review essay,_ part book review and part
in-depth discussion. A follow-up paper is planned to expand on some of the
issues further, particularly where I have now reframed a perspective suggested
in my previous writings.

In an unusual, but I think effective, editorial choice, the book’s first 60%
is not about Bitcoin, but instead provides essential theoretical and
historical background for grasping the scale of Bitcoin’s significance. It
walks through the theory and history of money and proto-money collectibles,
particularly informed by the Austrian school of economics. A central theme is
the role of sound money versus inflationary money in the evolution of
societies and cultures, and the wealth and poverty of nations.

Austrian school approaches, in which I had been immersed for years prior to
encountering Bitcoin, were the launching point for my writings on the subject,
which appeared primarily from 2013–2015 (assembled on my [Bitcoin
Theory](http://www.konradsgraf.com/bitcoin-theory) page). For those who do not
yet have such a perspective on money—alas, the vast majority—Ammous brings
them up to speed in admirable fashion while including details and formulations
likely to be useful to veterans as well.

What I immediately considered most intriguing about Bitcoin was its pre-
determined monetary policy for an asymptotically declining inflation rate,
eventually terminating at zero. It is just such recognition of the centrality
of monetary policy to Bitcoin’s importance that Ammous conveys throughout.

I assumed that such should likewise have been apparent to others versed in the
Austrian school. That it was not, and that Bitcoin was the target of attacks
from hard money advocates, became the launching point for my research.
Inflationists and money cranks would obviously hate Bitcoin, but what was
preventing so many of those with a pro-hard-money perspective from seeing its
potential to become a sound money?

I re-examined economic concepts as grounded in the theory of action in the
Austrian tradition (praxeology), such as goods, commodity, scarcity, and
rivalness, as well as Mises’s regression theorem and Menger’s evolutionary
account of monetary emergence through relative liquidity. I argued that each
concept and formulation can be applied independently of any need for a
material “base” for the goods in question.

Moreover, Austrian-school accounts of the origins and functions of money could
be applied to interpret the historical data on Bitcoin’s early evolution.
Bitcoin’s history formed a new free-market monetary origin story, one not
hidden by the mists of time, but plainly documented over the course of
2009–2011, as discussed in my late-2013 monograph, _On the Origins of Bitcoin:
Stages of Monetary Evolution_ ([PDF](http://www.konradsgraf.com/s/On-the-
Origins-of-Bitcoin-Graf-031113.pdf)).

It seemed that historical associations of sound money with material backing
were keeping some sound-money advocates from seeing that bitcoin could be a
_commodity_ and a _hard_ monetary commodity at that. A _commodity_ contrasts
with a more specialized good and is characterized by the full
interchangeability of products from different producers. In this case, the
producers in question are Bitcoin miners and the coins they produce are
fungible rather than distinguished or specialized (see my “Commodity,
scarcity, and monetary value theory in light of Bitcoin,”
[[PDF](http://pricesandmarkets.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/Graf-6.pdf)] (
_Prices & Markets_, 20 Oct 2015)).

The economic meaning of _hard_ is, as Ammous explains, __**difficult to
produce more units of in response to increases in demand** (5). __ What is it
that makes a monetary unit resistant to production growth? There are many
possibilities. Having a particular chemical composition is but one.

Bitcoin’s inflation-resistance rests on a novel basis, as described in my
late-2014 article, “[Bitcoin: Magic, fraud, or ‘sufficiently advanced
technology’?](http://konrad-graf.squarespace.com/blog1/2014/9/19/bitcoin-
magic-fraud-or-sufficiently-advanced-technology.html) Yet most Bitcoin critics
were not beginning to grasp the layered technical underpinnings of this. They
_assumed_ that bitcoins, as digital objects, must be copiable and therefore
unreliable. Yet what all the fuss was about was precisely that bitcoin units
were the first digital objects that are _not_ copiable in this way. Quite the
contrary, they constitute a new class of scarcity, never before seen, which
Ammous labels _absolute scarcity_ (177).

Ammous emphasizes _stock/flow ratio_ as a practical comparative measure of
monetary hardness (5–6). As demand to hold a unit rises, can its production be
profitably increased? And if so, by how much? It is quite difficult to expand
production of gold in response to an increase in demand for it. Moreover,
since gold is effectively indestructible, its stock has risen over the
centuries relative to the flow of annual mine production. This explains gold’s
unique superiority as a monetary asset, even to this day.

Yet Bitcoin is an entirely new development in this regard. Its unit production
cannot be expanded _at all_ in response to increased demand. Due to its
difficulty-adjustment algorithm, the more processing power comes on line, the
more is required to extract new coin. This keeps unit production on schedule
no matter how many resources are thrown at accelerating it.

Nevertheless, this growing distributed processing po­wer is not wasted; it
increases the network’s security by steadily raising the costs of attack
(173). The energy and investment that might have been channeled into socially
destructive inflation is channeled instead into increased network security,
which feeds back into further inflation-resistance. As the unit-production
schedule unfolds, bitcoin will in a few short years surpass, and then far
exceed, gold at the top of the stock/flow ratio charts (198–99), making it the
hardest __ monetary commodity ever known.

 _Cash,_ Ammous, argues, formerly meant not only a tradable bearer instrument
but, during the classical gold standard era, a final means of settlement. It
referred to physical metal (238). The modern sense of _cash_ as pocket money
has misled many into believing that bitcoin, in order to serve as digital
“cash,” must be usable for everyday transactions on chain. Instead, Ammous
argues that for both technical and economic reasons, on-chain bitcoin’s more
potent natural role may well be as a means of settlement, largely, though not
exclusively, to underpin far more efficient systems built on it. Such an
arrangement would be in keeping with this older sense of the word cash.

Ammous breaks down Carl Menger’s concept of salability, central to the
latter’s evolutionary account of monetary emergence, into three components:
salability across space, time, and scale. He finds that Bitcoin excels in each
area:

> With its supply growth rate dropping below that of gold by the year 2025,
> Bitcoin has the supply restrictions that could make it have considerable
> demand as a store of value; in other words, it can have salability across
> time. Its digital nature that makes it easy to safely send worldwide makes
> it salable in space in a way never seen with other forms of money, while its
> divisibility into 100,000,000 satoshis makes it salable in scale. (181)

Ammous challenges the popular notion that “blockchain technology” is likely to
be useful for much else than decentralized digital cash, that is, Bitcoin
(257–72). He examines the “other use cases” advertised for altcoins (non-
bitcoin cryptocurrencies) and finds that each suffers from a similar
problem—centralized and conventional database methods can or could do most or
all of these things more efficiently and at less cost than a block chain. A
decentralized block chain is a burdensome and costly design. What it produces
must be valuable and unique enough to justify its costs.

With Bitcoin, the block chain arrived as the unexpected solution to a well-
defined problem. Many “other use cases” are solutions looking for problems—not
to mention windfalls, venture capital, research grants, or social tracking and
control leverage. Some useful applications may emerge for private and
centralized blockchain-like structures, such as for internal cross border
transfers, as some large banks have already begun using, but this is entirely
different from _decentralized_ digital cash on a public permissionless
network, suitable for use with complete stranger counterparties.

## 2.   From monetary policy to immutability

Parts of Chapter 10 (217–274) highlight Bitcoin’s incentives for different
types of participants, such as the importance of decentralized full node
operators independently choosing which software to run, the desire of
developers to offer software that will be used, and the incentives for miners
to stay on the dominant network. The theme here is that much of the Bitcoin
network’s worth, in light of its valuable fixed monetary policy, lies in
resistance to consensus-rule changes. Any change requiring a backward-
incompatible hard fork to the network must attract sufficient support among
relevant parties that enough of them switch in a timely way; otherwise the
network could split into incompatible chains.

Cryptocurrencies created after Bitcoin, Ammous argues, suffer here from the
outsized presence of founding development teams or other identifiable backers.

> Without active management by a team of developers and marketers, no digital
> currency will attract any attention or capital in a sea of 1,000+
> currencies. But with active management, development, and marketing by a
> team, the currency cannot credibly demonstrate that it is not controlled by
> these individuals. With a group of developers in control of the majority of
> coins, processing power, and coding expertise, the currency is practically a
> centralized currency where the interests of the team dictate its development
> path. (254)

Today, this even begins to include mega-corporations and states mulling their
own initiatives to mimic some of Bitcoin’s peripheral characteristics while
omitting its most significant and critical ones. Such projects see the
attractions of the cryptocurrency revolution squarely in payment ease or
transfer convenience and not in the prospect of a new monetary asset with
unprecedented hardness.

Any group of founders and backers, whether states, corporations, or founding
teams can lead or promote hard-fork alterations (254–55). For Bitcoin alone,
the only corresponding founding figure was always anonymous and is now long
absent, having withdrawn in 2010 and never heard from since (251–52).
Bitcoin’s large number of software development contributors, node operators,
and miners are organizationally and jurisdictionally independent, located
worldwide.

This is a key part of Ammous’s central argument with regard to Bitcoin; its
value lies in its immutability, meaning that no party is in a position to
change its consensus rules (222–27).

> The reason that even seemingly innocuous changes to the protocol are
> extremely hard to carry out is the distributed nature of the network, and
> the need for many disparate and adversarial parties to agree to changes
> whose impact they cannot fully understand, while the safety and tried-and-
> tested familiarity of the status quo remains fully familiar and dependable.
> Bitcoin’s status quo can be understood as a stable Schelling point, which
> provides a useful incentive for all participants to stick to it, while the
> move away from it will always involve a significant risk of loss. (225)

Consensus rule fixity became a bone of contention, most prominently around
2014–2017, amid debate on a series of proposals to increase Bitcoin’s 1MB
block size limit. This limit restricts the amount of transaction data that can
be added to the chain per block (in effect, per time period, since a new block
appears on average every 10 minutes). Like the monetary policy, this is a
consensus rule that can only be changed through a backward-incompatible hard
fork. Each proposal failed to attract the necessary support. Disputants
differed not only on opinions about the height of the limit itself, but also
the wisdom and necessity of a hard fork, which is needed to change it (and
speaking of Shelling points, Change it to what, exactly? There were many
competing proposals).

A major argument in favor of the existing block size limit is that a
significant growth in block sizes would raise the cost of operating a full
node, reducing their number and making the network more vulnerable to
collusion or attack. The more limited the network requirements remain, the
more easily wholly independent nodes can operate in separate, unique
locations. In total, an [estimated](https://bitnodes.earn.com/) 9,500
nodes—including independents along with cloud instances and institutional
nodes, are reachable as of this writing. By country, the US and Germany lead,
together contributing 25% and 20%, respectively.

The prevailing view in the Bitcoin community is that if the block size limit,
by preserving more rather than fewer nodes, tips the balance toward added
marginal catastrophe insurance for the system while still keeping it _running
well enough_ , this must be given more weight than any non-critical increase
in data throughput. This is even more so when other methods exist or are in
development for increasing on-chain transaction throughput via increased
efficiency and transactional density. The latter refers to any method for
squeezing more transactions into the same data (for current examples, see
“[Taproot-Schnorr Soft Fork](http://diyhpl.us/wiki/transcripts/bit-block-
boom/2019/taproot-schnorr-soft-fork/)” (17 Aug 2019) by Mike Schmidt). Such
density-seeking strategies do not entail the trade-off between transaction
volume and node burden that a simple increase in data capacity does. Besides
increasing on-chain or “Layer 1” density, many options exist for moving
transactions off-chain to various “Layer 2” venues. The old saying, “If it
ain’t broke, don’t fix it” applies.

And it is here where the precise meanings attached to ‘running well enough’ or
‘ain’t’ broke’ become critical. On this, a conflict of visions came into focus
between a future of using the main chain directly as a large-scale payment
system (Visa and PayPal competitor) and one of using it as a sound money
system (dollar and gold competitor). Each vision suggests different
priorities. A transaction capacity deemed suitable to support a digital-gold
vision (ain’t broke) may be deemed insufficient to support a mass-payment-
system vision (is broke). And higher capacity for the mass-payment-system
vision (fixed it) implies lower security for the digital-gold vision (could
break it). If these visions are indeed incompatible, which ought to take
priority?

Ammous offers compelling arguments for the digital-gold vision and against the
mass payments vision. Among these:

> Current state-of-the-art technology in payment settlements has already
> introduced a wide array of options for settling small-scale payments with
> very little cost. It is likely that Bitcoin’s advantage lies not in
> competing with these payments for small amounts and over short distances;
> Bitcoin’s advantage, rather, is that by bringing the finality of cash
> settlement to the digital world, it has created the fastest method of final
> settlement of large payments across long distances and national borders. It
> is when compared to these payments that Bitcoin’s advantages appear most
> significant. (207)
>
> The invention of Bitcoin has created, from the ground up, a new independent
> alternative mechanism for international settlement that does not rely on any
> intermediary and can operate entirely separate from the existing financial
> infrastructure. (205)

Ammous argues that Bitcoin’s _status quo_ of economic policies, block size
limit included, is ideal because it helps protect the most important value for
bitcoin _as_ digital gold, the change-resistance of its monetary policy. The
functions of higher-volume transacting can be covered through other means.
Even if cryptographic substitutes did not gain widespread traction, more
traditional banking models could fill the gap.

> Bitcoin can be seen as the new emerging reserve currency for online
> transactions, where the online equivalent of banks will issue Bitcoin-backed
> tokens to users while keeping their hoard of Bitcoins in cold storage, with
> each individual being able to audit in real time the holdings of the
> intermediary, and with online verification and reputation systems able to
> verify that no inflation is taking place. (206)

The block size limit and the bitcoin unit production schedule must
nevertheless still be viewed as distinct phenomena in monetary-theory terms.
Placing them together under an argument for the immutability of all of
Bitcoin’s consensus rules does not remove this distinction.

Ammous correctly explains that the production of new bitcoin units, as an
example of the production of money units, is quite unlike the production of
consumer and producer goods and services. Any number of money units, provided
sufficiently divisible, will do equally well for a society of money users.
That pumping out ever more money units is not better, and is indeed far worse,
_for a society of money users as a whole_ is a central insight of the Austrian
approach to money.

However, regarding the height of the block size limit, the immediate issue is
not the number of money units produced, but the number of transactions that
miners can elect to include in a candidate block. Unlike producing more money
units, this _is_ a productive service performed in exchange for specific
payment. I have described this as the market for on-chain _transaction-
inclusion services_. This exists in concert with a _non-_ market for
_verification & relay services_, which are only compensated indirectly, having
no direct pricing mechanism.

In sum, monetary theory, for its part, hands Bitcoin a single-case special
justification for having an arbitrary economic limit fixed in code, and this
applies to its monetary policy _only_. __ This justification derives from a
unique peculiarity of money as an economic good, and does not extend, at least
not directly, to any other arbitrary economic limit, such as the block size
limit.

One can conclude that the block size limit may be defensible on other grounds,
but it is not as unmistakably defensible as the unit-supply schedule itself.
Ammous spends the bulk of the book setting up his defense of Bitcoin’s supply
schedule in particular (arguably the first 70% (Chaps 1–8)), and then in the
latter part shifts to a supportive explanation of the all-inclusive
inalterability of all of Bitcoin’s consensus rules (222–30), not just that of
its money supply rules.

This could be tempered with a finer-grained recognition that other consensus
rules do not enjoy the same degree of air-tight justifiability (from a pro-
hard-money standpoint, at least) as the money supply rules in particular. This
does not make these other rules indefensible, but it does show that that
supporting them stands on looser, more derivative ground.

## 3.   The primacy of sound money over permissionless transacting

Besides Bitcoin’s monetary policy, another of its main attractions is
_disintermediation_ , or in the famous phrase from the [Bitcoin white
paper](https://nakamotoinstitute.org/bitcoin/), the elimination of “trusted
third parties.” Bitcoin can be used to transfer value over arbitrary distance
without contracting with an intermediary service. It is cash-over-internet.

Some early enthusiasts and promoters seemed to view Bitcoin’s leading
contribution as freeing the people for _permissionless transacting_. A trusted
third party is in a position to refuse service based on identity or purpose,
reflecting internal corporate policies or jurisdictional prohibitions. Early
in Bitcoin’s history, the promise of permissionless transacting fueled the
rise of [Silk Road](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Silk_Road_\(marketplace\))
and later other Bitcoin-mediated prohibition-resistance marketplaces.

One critique of the digital gold vision for Bitcoin is that increased reliance
on off-chain Layer 2 services could recapitulate old-school intermediation,
bringing back trusted third parties in new hats, and standing between most
ordinary users and Bitcoin’s promise of disintermediation. Instead of end
users holding bitcoin (historically, gold coins), they will be limited to
using bitcoin substitutes for the most part (historically, paper notes and
deposit entries), which could then be inflated far more freely.

However, intermediation in Bitcoin is not of the “standing between” type since
nothing forbids end users from employing Layer 1 themselves, either directly
or as a means of auditing Layer 2 services, the latter completely
unprecedented in the gold case. Moreover, unlike historical gold-based
currencies, Bitcoin has no favored legal status. Layer 2 options can only
attract users if they provide some service that these users prefer. For
example, certain Layer 2 _bitcoin substitutes_ could come to offer privacy,
speed, cost, and other advantages over Layer 1 bitcoin. Layer 2 units could
overcome their own drawbacks (principally, that of not _being_ on-chain
bitcoin) by offering counterbalancing values that give them a net advantage
for various applications. In the case of cryptographic substitutes, they can
form a direct link to specific on-chain bitcoin units, making their “backing”
specific rather than pooled, and therefore easier to audit.

Intermediation as such can be a natural outcome of the hierarchical structure
of economic specialization and the division of labor. It is most likely
unobjectionable provided that it occurs within a voluntary context, which can
make it a benefit rather than uninvited meddling. The natural, emergent
hierarchies and structures of the voluntary sector must be carefully
distinguished from the compulsory-sector hierarchies that the state nurtures
and sustains through force and threats.

Using on-chain bitcoin directly remains permissionless in that the network is
open to any node running compatible software. The significance of eliminating
trusted third parties persists in that any party can join Layer 1 and interact
directly with any other party on it without permission. All that is
required—from the standpoint of Bitcoin itself—is suitable hardware,
consensus-compatible software, and network connectivity, no permission slips.

However, this in no way implies a certain costlessness of joining the network,
and it does not mean that Layer 1 must remain suited to any imagined use at
any wished-for cost level.­­ If eventually the typical Layer 1 user were a
Layer 2 intermediary or financial institution, this would have been the
outcome of a voluntary-sector evolution toward improved performance at global
scale. Bitcoin would still be providing a non-inflationary monetary base open
to direct access by anyone who valued it sufficiently to join the network.
Open entry is not the same as costless entry. And from a market-oriented
perspective, it is openness of entry that is critical to competitive health.

This contrasts with the current money and banking system built on nationally
and internationally managed fiat money, created and maintained to facilitate
the inflation- and debt-financing of the interventionist state and its long
follower-train of profiting cronies. Unlike Bitcoin, which is open to all
entrants, direct participation in key roles in the conventional money and
banking system is restricted to vetted cartel members and well-trained, paid
sympathizers.

But a closed system built from the ground up to run on rotten money cannot be
fundamentally reformed. An open system built on sound money is capable of
reforming itself through continuous improvement in the context of free
competition.

Bitcoin could represent a “decentralized alternative to central banking” in
that any individual or institution can join without a cartel membership and
begin to interact with any other party on the network regardless of geographic
location or political jurisdiction. The size and composition of such parties
and the uses to which they put Layer 1, for direct use or service provision,
would naturally evolve with time and social progress. However, bitcoin’s
monetary hardness and direct auditability makes it an unsuitable base for the
inflation-pyramiding schemes of conventional banking as we know it.

It is important to recall that banking as such is not inherently corrupt;
instead, it is corrupt in that it is operated as a state-orchestrated cartel
running on unsound money. Key services that banking offers are something that
people want to use.

> In the midst of the very common anti-bank rhetoric that is popular these
> days, particularly in Bitcoin circles, it is easy to forget that deposit
> banking is a legitimate business which people have demanded for hundreds of
> years around the world. People have happily paid to have their money stored
> safely so they only need to carry a small amount on them and face little
> risk of loss. (237)

Between Bitcoin’s two features of providing sound money and permissionless
transacting, the first is of far greater significance, the second more a
functional support. Engagement in mutually consensual commercial association
in the face of unjust restrictions offers an annoyance to the existing system
of rule, but one that is addressable through forensic procedures and
totalitarian justice, as several pioneers of bitcoin-mediated prohibition-
resistance marketplaces have discovered to their detriment.

Bitcoin has also been touted more generally for its always-on service and
borderless convenience for payments and transfers. However, conventional
financial systems and services, awakened from incumbent slumber by upstart
cryptocurrency competition, can readily improve the speed, availability, and
pricing of their own online payment and transfer offerings, and have been
doing so.

In contrast, Bitcoin’s unique and durable competitive advantage lies
elsewhere—in its unprecedented monetary hardness. A paradigm shift away from
fiat-money mediated, politically controlled central banking is of wider-
reaching potential impact than either individual permissionless transacting or
added convenience. It is a path beyond major systemic drawbacks of the modern
nation-state system. The steady heat of a hard money alternative could
gradually evaporate the conventional system’s corrupt lifeblood—its ever-
depreciating fiat money—the shadowy chief financier of its socially
destructive inflation- and debt-ridden practices.

As a bonus, over the longer-term, such a monetary revolution could _also_ aid
in getting beyond the conventional system’s primitive meddling in mutually
consensual matters, a major driver of interest in permissionless transacting
to begin with. In Thoreau’s formulation, “there are a thousand hacking at the
branches of evil to one who is striking at the root.” Individual-level
permissionless transacting can ultimately only hack at the branches of the
modern state’s evils whereas the mere existence of a sound money alternative
strikes at their root.

## 4.   As Bitcoin gradually eats the world of monetary assets…

 _The Bitcoin Standard_ makes the case that Bitcoin is not only analogous to
the classical gold standard, but in important respects has at least the
theoretical potential to be superior to it. For those already versed in hard-
money-oriented Austrian-school approaches, as well as those brought up to
speed by reading this book, the enormity of this potential contribution to
society will stand out. Bitcoin could in the longer term come to fill the most
neglected niche of all, sound base money, the production rate of which cannot
be increased by any party—private or public, individual or institutional.

> Bitcoin can be understood as a sovereign piece of code, because there is no
> authority outside of it that can control its behavior. Only Bitcoin’s rules
> control Bitcoin, and the possibility of changing these rules in any
> substantive way has become extremely impractical as the status-quo bias
> continues to shape the incentives of everyone involved in the project. (253)

In light of common warnings about how risky Bitcoin is, that it is unproven,
that its market price is volatile, that managing it requires specialized
knowledge and practice and that access to its units can be lost, there could
also be risks to shunning it altogether. What if it succeeds?

Ammous recounts episodes when a money with a superior _stock/flow ratio_ has
driven out a money with a lesser one. This includes gold driving out silver
(31–33), as well as several more obscure historical cases (16). Each time,
those left holding the demonetizing assets—in some cases specific central
banks and residents of the corresponding countries—have suffered steady,
serious, and permanent wealth losses.

Ammous estimates that, “around the year 2022, Bitcoin’s stock-to-flow ratio
will overtake that of gold, and by 2025, it will be around double that of gold
and continue to increase quickly into the future while that of gold stays
roughly the same (199).” The very strongest of the fiat currencies, the
Japanese yen and the Swiss franc, equaled Bitcoin’s stock/flow ratio back in
2017 (198), but Bitcoin has by now surpassed them.

If Bitcoin’s relative stock/flow ratio does indeed help enable it to eat the
world of monetary assets, it can take its time enjoying the meal. Major
transitions would take time, with twists and turns along the way, and
catastrophic risks can never be wholly eliminated. Since this is an all-
voluntary system, however, transitions can only proceed along opt-in paths, in
which each individual and institution decides at the margins that its next
step is likely to be in its own interests.

In the meantime, anyone who has not read _The Bitcoin Standard_ should do so.
The highlights above can only indicate some of the key outcomes of a detailed,
well-supported presentation. Beginners will be brought up to speed in an
engaging fashion, while even those already well-versed in both Austrian
economics and Bitcoin are likely to come away with both new details and an
integrated, readable narrative that never loses sight of that which is most
important and remarkable about Bitcoin, its potential to become a hard
monetary unit in a soft age of inflation.

[__October 01, 2019](/blog1/2019/10/1/sound-money-strikes-at-the-root-a-
review-essay-on-the-bitcoin-standard) / [__Konrad
Graf](/blog1?author=5720adbcb6aa6055fa279727) / [__[](/blog1/2019/10/1/sound-
money-strikes-at-the-root-a-review-essay-on-the-bitcoin-standard)
](/blog1/2019/10/1/sound-money-strikes-at-the-root-a-review-essay-on-the-
bitcoin-standard)

__[Bitcoin](/blog1/category/Bitcoin), [Economic
theory](/blog1/category/Economic+theory)

__[Ammous](/blog1/tag/Ammous), [book review](/blog1/tag/book+review), [gold
standard](/blog1/tag/gold+standard), [sound money](/blog1/tag/sound+money)

### [Konrad Graf](/blog1?author=5720adbcb6aa6055fa279727)

  * [__New paper: The Bitcoin Block Size ...](/blog1/2019/12/24/new-paper-the-bitcoin-block-size-limit-artificial-scarcity-and-code-enhanced-public-club-governance "New paper: The Bitcoin Block Size Limit, Artificial Scarcity, and Code-Enhanced Public Club Governance")
  * [Justice as distinct from rule ... __](/blog1/2019/4/26/justice-as-distinct-from-rule-through-law "Justice as distinct from rule through law")

  * [About](/)/
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)/
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)/
  * Evolutionary Health/

    * [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health)
    * [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)

  * [Translation](/translation)/
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)/
  * [Blog](/blog1)/
  * [Contact](/contact)/

### Konrad S. Graf

Research and writing portal for the work of Konrad S. Graf. Focus areas
include monetary theory and bitcoin, legal philosophy,  evolutionary health,
Japanese translation, and Spacial Dynamics.

[Blog RSS](http://feeds.feedburner.com/Blog-KonradSGraf "Blog RSS")

[![Creative Commons
License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/80x15.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)  
This site is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

  * [ December 2020 ](/blog1?month=12-2020)
    * Dec 8, 2020  [Texas sues four states for violating the Electors Clause: Initial summary and comment](/blog1/2020/12/8/texas-sues-pa-ga-mi-and-wi-for-violating-the-electors-clause-initial-summary-and-comment) Dec 8, 2020 
  * [ December 2019 ](/blog1?month=12-2019)
    * Dec 24, 2019  [New paper: The Bitcoin Block Size Limit, Artificial Scarcity, and Code-Enhanced Public Club Governance](/blog1/2019/12/24/new-paper-the-bitcoin-block-size-limit-artificial-scarcity-and-code-enhanced-public-club-governance) Dec 24, 2019 
  * [ October 2019 ](/blog1?month=10-2019)
    * Oct 1, 2019  [Sound Money Strikes at the Root: A Review Essay on The Bitcoin Standard](/blog1/2019/10/1/sound-money-strikes-at-the-root-a-review-essay-on-the-bitcoin-standard) Oct 1, 2019 
  * [ April 2019 ](/blog1?month=04-2019)
    * Apr 26, 2019  [Justice as distinct from rule through law](/blog1/2019/4/26/justice-as-distinct-from-rule-through-law) Apr 26, 2019 
  * [ November 2018 ](/blog1?month=11-2018)
    * Nov 30, 2018  [Speaking with one-year-olds and beyond: Age-appropriateness, healthy authority, and social implications](/blog1/2018/11/30/speaking-with-one-year-olds-and-beyond-age-appropriateness-healthy-authority-and-social-implications) Nov 30, 2018 
  * [ December 2017 ](/blog1?month=12-2017)
    * Dec 20, 2017  [Why can't I see that Bitcoin Cash is a scam?](/blog1/2017/12/20/why-cant-i-see-that-bitcoin-cash-is-a-scam) Dec 20, 2017 
  * [ November 2017 ](/blog1?month=11-2017)
    * Nov 21, 2017  [Barbell and beef experiments—Lessons and customizations](/blog1/2017/11/21/barbell-and-beef-experimentslessons-and-customizations) Nov 21, 2017 
  * [ October 2017 ](/blog1?month=10-2017)
    * Oct 11, 2017  [Interview: Bitcoin, blockchains, and economic theory](/blog1/2017/10/10/bitcoin-blockchains-and-economic-theory-an-interview-with-konrad-s-graf) Oct 11, 2017 
  * [ August 2017 ](/blog1?month=08-2017)
    * Aug 20, 2017  [BTC plus BCC showing strong combined gains as market attention shifts to next controversy](/blog1/2017/8/19/btc-plus-bcc-showing-strong-combined-gains) Aug 20, 2017 
    * Aug 5, 2017  [Descendants with modifications: Bitcoin’s new and possibly beneficial evolutionary test](/blog1/2017/8/5/descendants-with-modifications-bitcoins-new-and-possibly-beneficial-evolutionary-test) Aug 5, 2017 
  * [ July 2017 ](/blog1?month=07-2017)
    * Jul 23, 2017  [Additional Issues with the Balance and Accuracy of the Anti-Musk Narrative](/blog1/2017/7/23/77vber91a23965ptgjnph82ktt51f9) Jul 23, 2017 
    * Jul 23, 2017  [A Mixed Hero: A Libertarian Reassessment of Elon Musk](/blog1/2017/7/22/hnbbsghwp2hf881mjakf4q2sjnxwh3) Jul 23, 2017 
    * Jul 9, 2017  [Outlines of a Unified Evolutionary Theory of Human and Environmental Health](/blog1/2017/7/9/a-unified-evolutionary-theory-of-human-and-environmental-health) Jul 9, 2017 
  * [ October 2016 ](/blog1?month=10-2016)
    * Oct 15, 2016  [Yes and Nein: Borrowing the best from German and American cultures (and not borrowing the worst)](/blog1/2016/10/15/yes-and-nein-borrowing-the-best-from-german-and-american-cultures-and-not-borrowing-the-worst) Oct 15, 2016 
    * Oct 2, 2016  [Ancient travel food meets modern travel: My ultimate paleo travel meal option](/blog1/2016/10/2/ancient-meets-modern-my-ultimate-paleo-travel-meal-option) Oct 2, 2016 
  * [ September 2016 ](/blog1?month=09-2016)
    * Sep 29, 2016  [SpaceX can get there, but biology a probable Mars residence limiter](/blog1/2016/9/29/spacex-can-get-there-but-biology-likely-a-critical-mars-residence-limiter) Sep 29, 2016 
  * [ August 2016 ](/blog1?month=08-2016)
    * Aug 16, 2016  [The curious case of the faster-healing knee and the larger steaks](/blog1/2016/8/2/the-curious-case-of-the-faster-healing-knee-and-the-larger-steaks) Aug 16, 2016 
  * [ July 2016 ](/blog1?month=07-2016)
    * Jul 10, 2016  [Block Size Political Economy Follow-Up 3: Differentiation from the 21-million Coin Production Schedule](/blog1/2016/7/8/block-size-political-economy-follow-up-3-differentiation-from-the-21-million-coin-production-schedule) Jul 10, 2016 
    * Jul 9, 2016  [Block Size Political Economy Follow-Up 2: Market Intervention through Voluntary Community Rules](/blog1/2016/7/8/block-size-political-economy-follow-up-2-market-intervention-through-voluntary-community-rules) Jul 9, 2016 
    * Jul 8, 2016  [Block Size Political Economy Follow-Up 1: Software Choice, Market Differentiation, and Term Selection](/blog1/2016/7/8/block-size-political-economy-follow-up-1-software-choice-market-differentiation-and-term-selection) Jul 8, 2016 
  * [ April 2016 ](/blog1?month=04-2016)
    * Apr 22, 2016  [Only the faster profits: A powerful health measure and why it is unadvertised](/blog1/2016/4/22/only-the-faster-profits-a-powerful-health-measure-and-why-it.html) Apr 22, 2016 
  * [ February 2016 ](/blog1?month=02-2016)
    * Feb 4, 2016  [Some misplaced explanations of bitcoins as tradable units](/blog1/2016/2/4/some-misplaced-explanations-of-bitcoins-as-tradable-units.html) Feb 4, 2016 
  * [ November 2015 ](/blog1?month=11-2015)
    * Nov 8, 2015  [Announcing new book on bitcoin and legal theory](/blog1/2015/11/8/announcing-new-book-on-bitcoin-and-legal-theory.html) Nov 8, 2015 
  * [ June 2015 ](/blog1?month=06-2015)
    * Jun 20, 2015  [Preview: “The market for bitcoin transaction inclusion and the temporal root of scarcity”](/blog1/2015/6/20/preview-the-market-for-bitcoin-transaction-inclusion-and-the.html) Jun 20, 2015 
  * [ March 2015 ](/blog1?month=03-2015)
    * Mar 11, 2015  [Bitcoin as a rival digital commodity good: A supplementary comment](/blog1/2015/3/11/bitcoin-as-a-rival-digital-commodity-good-a-supplementary-co.html) Mar 11, 2015 
  * [ February 2015 ](/blog1?month=02-2015)
    * Feb 15, 2015  [Jeff Volek presents research indicating low-carb also best way to improve lipid profiles](/blog1/2015/2/15/jeff-volek-presents-research-indicating-low-carb-also-best-w.html) Feb 15, 2015 
  * [ October 2014 ](/blog1?month=10-2014)
    * Oct 25, 2014  [Sidechained bitcoin substitutes: A monetary commentary](/blog1/2014/10/25/sidechained-bitcoin-substitutes-a-monetary-commentary.html) Oct 25, 2014 
  * [ September 2014 ](/blog1?month=09-2014)
    * Sep 19, 2014  [Bitcoin: Magic, fraud, or 'sufficiently advanced technology'?](/blog1/2014/9/19/bitcoin-magic-fraud-or-sufficiently-advanced-technology.html) Sep 19, 2014 
  * [ August 2014 ](/blog1?month=08-2014)
    * Aug 27, 2014  [A tale of bitcoins and $500 suits: Will a rising-value currency not be used?](/blog1/2014/8/27/a-tale-of-bitcoins-and-500-suits-will-a-rising-value-currenc.html) Aug 27, 2014 
    * Aug 21, 2014  ["Bitcoin 2014 Panel: History of Money & Lessons for Digital Currencies Today" with time-based outline](/blog1/2014/8/21/bitcoin-2014-panel-history-of-money-lessons-for-digital-curr.html) Aug 21, 2014 
    * Aug 19, 2014  [“Bitcoin 2014 Panel: Economic Theory of Bitcoin” with time-based outline](/blog1/2014/8/19/bitcoin-2014-panel-economic-theory-of-bitcoin-with-time-base.html) Aug 19, 2014 
  * [ May 2014 ](/blog1?month=05-2014)
    * May 21, 2014  [Gold standards, optionality, and parallel metallic- and crypto-coin circulations](/blog1/2014/5/21/gold-standards-optionality-and-parallel-metallic-and-crypto.html) May 21, 2014 
    * May 20, 2014  [The helpful fable of the "bitcoin": Duality models revisited](/blog1/2014/5/20/the-helpful-fable-of-the-bitcoin-duality-models-revisited.html) May 20, 2014 
    * May 1, 2014  [Bitcoin weekly weighted average price, July 2010 through April 2014](/blog1/2014/5/1/bitcoin-weekly-weighted-average-price-july-2010-through-apri.html) May 1, 2014 
  * [ March 2014 ](/blog1?month=03-2014)
    * Mar 18, 2014  [New paper: "Revisiting conceptions of commodity and scarcity in light of Bitcoin"](/blog1/2014/3/18/new-paper-revisiting-conceptions-of-commodity-and-scarcity-i.html) Mar 18, 2014 
    * Mar 12, 2014  [Another layer of distinction behind Tucker’s humanitarians and brutalists ](/blog1/2014/3/12/another-layer-of-distinction-behind-tuckers-humanitarians-an.html) Mar 12, 2014 
    * Mar 6, 2014  [Newsweek uncovers its own lack of integrity in alleged “Satoshi Nakamoto” discovery reporting](/blog1/2014/3/6/newsweek-uncovers-its-own-lack-of-integrity-in-alleged-satos.html) Mar 6, 2014 
  * [ February 2014 ](/blog1?month=02-2014)
    * Feb 27, 2014  [MtGox fiasco highlights advantages of Bitcoin and damage from regulation](/blog1/2014/2/27/mtgox-fiasco-highlights-advantages-of-bitcoin-and-damage-fro.html) Feb 27, 2014 
    * Feb 14, 2014  [Summary update on Bitcoin transaction malleability adjustments](/blog1/2014/2/14/summary-update-on-bitcoin-transaction-malleability-adjustmen.html) Feb 14, 2014 
  * [ January 2014 ](/blog1?month=01-2014)
    * Jan 13, 2014  [Legal and economic perspectives in the action-based analysis of Bitcoin](/blog1/2014/1/13/legal-and-economic-perspectives-in-the-action-based-analysis.html) Jan 13, 2014 
  * [ November 2013 ](/blog1?month=11-2013)
    * Nov 7, 2013  [Hyper-monetization reloaded: Another round of bubble talk](/blog1/2013/11/7/hyper-monetization-reloaded-another-round-of-bubble-talk.html) Nov 7, 2013 
    * Nov 3, 2013  [Expanded "On the origins of Bitcoin" paper with empirical supplements, other revisions](/blog1/2013/11/3/expanded-on-the-origins-of-bitcoin-paper-with-empirical-supp.html) Nov 3, 2013 
  * [ October 2013 ](/blog1?month=10-2013)
    * Oct 25, 2013  [Strong positive response to "On the origins of Bitcoin"](/blog1/2013/10/25/strong-positive-response-to-on-the-origins-of-bitcoin.html) Oct 25, 2013 
    * Oct 23, 2013  ["On the origins of Bitcoin," my new work on Bitcoin and monetary theory](/blog1/2013/10/23/on-the-origins-of-bitcoin-my-new-work-on-bitcoin-and-monetar.html) Oct 23, 2013 
    * Oct 3, 2013  [Bitcoin and social theory reflections: A review essay between Amsterdam and Atlanta](/blog1/2013/10/3/bitcoin-and-social-theory-reflections-a-review-essay-between.html) Oct 3, 2013 
  * [ September 2013 ](/blog1?month=09-2013)
    * Sep 15, 2013  [The labor, leisure, and happiness game: Psychology, praxeology, and ethics](/blog1/2013/9/15/the-labor-leisure-and-happiness-game-psychology-praxeology-a.html) Sep 15, 2013 
    * Sep 14, 2013  [Bitcoin as medium of exchange now and unit of account later: The inverse of Koning's medieval coins](/blog1/2013/9/14/bitcoin-as-medium-of-exchange-now-and-unit-of-account-later.html) Sep 14, 2013 
  * [ August 2013 ](/blog1?month=08-2013)
    * Aug 22, 2013  [Recommended: Provocative and important new article on Bitcoin and altcoins](/blog1/2013/8/22/recommended-provocative-and-important-new-article-on-bitcoin.html) Aug 22, 2013 
    * Aug 21, 2013  [A banking risk premium: Mt. Gox XBT/USD spread over Bitstamp](/blog1/2013/8/21/a-banking-risk-premium-mt-gox-xbtusd-spread-over-bitstamp.html) Aug 21, 2013 
  * [ July 2013 ](/blog1?month=07-2013)
    * Jul 25, 2013  [Tiger cub growing up? Bitcoin weekly average closing prices year over year](/blog1/2013/7/25/tiger-cub-growing-up-bitcoin-weekly-average-closing-prices-y.html) Jul 25, 2013 
    * Jul 22, 2013  [Bitcoin, price denomination and fixed-rate fiat conversions](/blog1/2013/7/22/bitcoin-price-denomination-and-fixed-rate-fiat-conversions.html) Jul 22, 2013 
  * [ June 2013 ](/blog1?month=06-2013)
    * Jun 30, 2013  [Now in audio on YouTube: Bitcoin and regression theorem article](/blog1/2013/6/30/now-in-audio-on-youtube-bitcoin-and-regression-theorem-artic.html) Jun 30, 2013 
    * Jun 20, 2013  [Bitcoins per gold ounce weekly close YTD](/blog1/2013/6/20/bitcoins-per-gold-ounce-weekly-close-ytd.html) Jun 20, 2013 
    * Jun 3, 2013  [The m's and b's of millibitcoin redenomination](/blog1/2013/6/3/the-ms-and-bs-of-millibitcoin-redenomination.html) Jun 3, 2013 
  * [ April 2013 ](/blog1?month=04-2013)
    * Apr 13, 2013  [Another bump on the road: Bitcoin and bubbles revisited](/blog1/2013/4/13/another-bump-on-the-road-bitcoin-and-bubbles-revisited.html) Apr 13, 2013 
    * Apr 11, 2013  [Short-term Bitcoin exchange trends as Rorschach tests of economic views](/blog1/2013/4/11/short-term-bitcoin-exchange-trends-as-rorschach-tests-of-eco.html) Apr 11, 2013 
    * Apr 6, 2013  [Hyper-monetization: Questioning the "Bitcoin bubble" bubble](/blog1/2013/4/6/hyper-monetization-questioning-the-bitcoin-bubble-bubble.html) Apr 6, 2013 
  * [ March 2013 ](/blog1?month=03-2013)
    * Mar 30, 2013  [A short Bitcoin commentary on "Deflation and Liberty"](/blog1/2013/3/30/a-short-bitcoin-commentary-on-deflation-and-liberty.html) Mar 30, 2013 
    * Mar 19, 2013  [IN-DEPTH | The sound of one bitcoin: Tangibility, scarcity, and a "hard-money" checklist](/blog1/2013/3/19/in-depth-the-sound-of-one-bitcoin-tangibility-scarcity-and-a.html) Mar 19, 2013 
    * Mar 15, 2013  [Individualism, collectivism, "mere" birds, and how to understand ice hockey](/blog1/2013/3/15/individualism-collectivism-mere-birds-and-how-to-understand.html) Mar 15, 2013 
    * Mar 6, 2013  [Bitcoin and social-theory research highlights: Digging for kryptonite](/blog1/2013/3/6/bitcoin-and-social-theory-research-highlights-digging-for-kr.html) Mar 6, 2013 
  * [ February 2013 ](/blog1?month=02-2013)
    * Feb 27, 2013  [IN-DEPTH | Bitcoins, the regression theorem, and that curious but unthreatening empirical world](/blog1/2013/2/27/in-depth-bitcoins-the-regression-theorem-and-that-curious-bu.html) Feb 27, 2013 
    * Feb 20, 2013  [Misesian action theory is an approach to social theory, not just economics](/blog1/2013/2/20/misesian-action-theory-is-an-approach-to-social-theory-not-j.html) Feb 20, 2013 
    * Feb 16, 2013  [Reeva Steencamp's final message, academic hubris, and a legal philosophy view of the case](/blog1/2013/2/16/reeva-steencamps-final-message-academic-hubris-and-a-legal-p.html) Feb 16, 2013 
    * Feb 10, 2013  [Bank robber chatting with Bill Murray illustrates self-control theory](/blog1/2013/2/10/bank-robber-chatting-with-bill-murray-illustrates-self-contr.html) Feb 10, 2013 
    * Feb 1, 2013  [Action-Based Jurisprudence II: Down under (and back again)](/blog1/2013/2/1/action-based-jurisprudence-ii-down-under-and-back-again.html) Feb 1, 2013 
  * [ January 2013 ](/blog1?month=01-2013)
    * Jan 15, 2013  [BOOK COMMENT | The Constitution was already perfectly clear to begin with](/blog1/2013/1/15/book-comment-the-constitution-was-already-perfectly-clear-to.html) Jan 15, 2013 
  * [ November 2012 ](/blog1?month=11-2012)
    * Nov 8, 2012  [Another mummer's farce gone by (and more rumors of wogs and dragons)](/blog1/2012/11/8/another-mummers-farce-gone-by-and-more-rumors-of-wogs-and-dr.html) Nov 8, 2012 
  * [ August 2012 ](/blog1?month=08-2012)
    * Aug 25, 2012  [The problem with shouting “Tyranny!” in a crowded theater](/blog1/2012/8/25/the-problem-with-shouting-tyranny-in-a-crowded-theater.html) Aug 25, 2012 
    * Aug 16, 2012  [Resolving the paradox of value](/blog1/2012/8/16/resolving-the-paradox-of-value.html) Aug 16, 2012 
    * Aug 10, 2012  [IN-DEPTH | Logic takes on the physics paradoxes: Review essay on The Spacetime Model: A Theory of Everything by Jacky Jerôme](/blog1/2012/8/10/in-depth-logic-takes-on-the-physics-paradoxes-review-essay-o.html) Aug 10, 2012 
    * Aug 10, 2012  [IN-DEPTH | Ron Paul, Flatland, and the left–right long con: Beyond the Nolan Chart](/blog1/2012/8/10/in-depth-ron-paul-flatland-and-the-leftright-long-con-beyond.html) Aug 10, 2012 
    * Aug 10, 2012  [Two types of A Game of Apples](/blog1/2012/8/10/two-types-of-a-game-of-apples.html) Aug 10, 2012 
  * [ April 2012 ](/blog1?month=04-2012)
    * Apr 1, 2012  [REVIEW | Liberty message in Hunger Games book much weaker in film](/blog1/2012/4/1/review-liberty-message-in-hunger-games-book-much-weaker-in-f.html) Apr 1, 2012 
  * [ January 2012 ](/blog1?month=01-2012)
    * Jan 22, 2012  [REVIEW | Primal Body, Primal Mind by Nora Gedgaudas](/blog1/2012/1/22/review-primal-body-primal-mind-by-nora-gedgaudas.html) Jan 22, 2012 
    * Jan 18, 2012  [REVIEW | The Paleo Answer by Loren Cordain](/blog1/2012/1/18/review-the-paleo-answer-by-loren-cordain.html) Jan 18, 2012 
    * Jan 18, 2012  [REVIEW | Four Laws that Drive the Universe by Peter Atkins](/blog1/2012/1/18/review-four-laws-that-drive-the-universe-by-peter-atkins.html) Jan 18, 2012 
    * Jan 13, 2012  [Is the left–right spectrum in flatland? A better way to graph Ron Paul](/blog1/2012/1/13/is-the-leftright-spectrum-in-flatland-a-better-way-to-graph.html) Jan 13, 2012 
  * [ December 2011 ](/blog1?month=12-2011)
    * Dec 31, 2011  [REVIEW | Cells, Gels, and the Engines of Life by Gerald H. Pollack](/blog1/2011/12/31/review-cells-gels-and-the-engines-of-life-by-gerald-h-pollac.html) Dec 31, 2011 
    * Dec 23, 2011  [REVIEW | Focused progress with Body by Science, but integration with proper running methods should be possible](/blog1/2011/12/23/review-focused-progress-with-body-by-science-but-integration.html) Dec 23, 2011 
  * [ November 2011 ](/blog1?month=11-2011)
    * Nov 11, 2011  [Who was it that lived at the corner of Tech and Humanities?](/blog1/2011/11/11/who-was-it-that-lived-at-the-corner-of-tech-and-humanities.html) Nov 11, 2011 
  * [ August 2011 ](/blog1?month=08-2011)
    * Aug 30, 2011  [On more robust theoretical foundations for legal philosophy](/blog1/2011/8/30/on-more-robust-theoretical-foundations-for-legal-philosophy.html) Aug 30, 2011 
  * [ August 2010 ](/blog1?month=08-2010)
    * Aug 5, 2010  [My top six picks out of the 26 books I read in Jan–Jun 2010](/blog1/2010/8/5/my-top-six-picks-out-of-the-26-books-i-read-in-janjun-2010.html) Aug 5, 2010 
  * [ January 2010 ](/blog1?month=01-2010)
    * Jan 3, 2010  [REVIEW | Avatar: Storyworld creation, justice and environmentalism on Pandora and Earth](/blog1/2010/1/3/review-avatar-storyworld-creation-justice-and-environmentali.html) Jan 3, 2010 
    * Jan 2, 2010  [2009 H2 reading and audiobook results](/blog1/2010/1/2/2009-h2-reading-and-audiobook-results.html) Jan 2, 2010 
  * [ December 2009 ](/blog1?month=12-2009)
    * Dec 2, 2009  [REVIEW | The Gods Themselves and climate-science Orwellianism: Is optimism still possible?](/blog1/2009/12/2/review-the-gods-themselves-and-climate-science-orwellianism.html) Dec 2, 2009 
  * [ September 2009 ](/blog1?month=09-2009)
    * Sep 21, 2009  [Getting to the Core of the Energy Debate](/blog1/2009/9/21/getting-to-the-core-of-the-energy-debate.html) Sep 21, 2009 
  * [ July 2009 ](/blog1?month=07-2009)
    * Jul 9, 2009  [2009 H1 results](/blog1/2009/7/9/2009-h1-results.html) Jul 9, 2009 
    * Jul 3, 2009  [REVIEW | The Ethics of Money Production by Jörg Guido Hülsmann](/blog1/2009/7/3/review-the-ethics-of-money-production-by-jorg-guido-hulsmann.html) Jul 3, 2009 
  * [ February 2009 ](/blog1?month=02-2009)
    * Feb 20, 2009  [Vaclav Klaus hits the right notes before the European Parliament](/blog1/2009/2/20/vaclav-klaus-hits-the-right-notes-before-the-european-parlia.html) Feb 20, 2009 
    * Feb 17, 2009  [The miles per gallon illusion](/blog1/2009/2/17/the-miles-per-gallon-illusion.html) Feb 17, 2009 
    * Feb 17, 2009  ["Enemies of liberty" more accurately located](/blog1/2009/2/17/enemies-of-liberty-more-accurately-located.html) Feb 17, 2009 
    * Feb 4, 2009  [IN-DEPTH | President Obama's inaugural address—analysis and commentary](/blog1/2009/2/4/in-depth-president-obamas-inaugural-addressanalysis-and-comm.html) Feb 4, 2009 
  * [ January 2009 ](/blog1?month=01-2009)
    * Jan 20, 2009  [Open letter to Bloomberg reporters on "economists of all stripes" claim](/blog1/2009/1/20/open-letter-to-bloomberg-reporters-on-economists-of-all-stri.html) Jan 20, 2009 
    * Jan 6, 2009  [Journalism values dead in US MSM, judging from its coverage of Gaza](/blog1/2009/1/6/journalism-values-dead-in-us-msm-judging-from-its-coverage-o.html) Jan 6, 2009 
  * [ December 2008 ](/blog1?month=12-2008)
    * Dec 31, 2008  [My year by the numbers](/blog1/2008/12/31/my-year-by-the-numbers.html) Dec 31, 2008 
    * Dec 15, 2008  [What can one person do?](/blog1/2008/12/15/what-can-one-person-do.html) Dec 15, 2008 
  * [ November 2008 ](/blog1?month=11-2008)
    * Nov 26, 2008  [Washington State Constitution: Article I, Section 1](/blog1/2008/11/26/washington-state-constitution-article-i-section-1.html) Nov 26, 2008 
    * Nov 20, 2008  [A formula to help with the "Inevitable Question"](/blog1/2008/11/20/a-formula-to-help-with-the-inevitable-question.html) Nov 20, 2008 
    * Nov 20, 2008  [The perfect crime is the one not detected](/blog1/2008/11/20/the-perfect-crime-is-the-one-not-detected.html) Nov 20, 2008 
    * Nov 5, 2008  [1% for Obama; 100% for Brother](/blog1/2008/11/5/1-for-obama-100-for-brother.html) Nov 5, 2008 
  * [ October 2008 ](/blog1?month=10-2008)
    * Oct 31, 2008  ["Successes" of intervention; the emotional challenge of looking at the truth](/blog1/2008/10/31/successes-of-intervention-the-emotional-challenge-of-looking.html) Oct 31, 2008 
  * [ August 2008 ](/blog1?month=08-2008)
    * Aug 26, 2008  [REVIEW | Law and Revolution II: Religion, law, and economic transformation](/blog1/2008/8/26/review-law-and-revolution-ii-religion-law-and-economic-trans.html) Aug 26, 2008 
  * [ July 2008 ](/blog1?month=07-2008)
    * Jul 4, 2008  [Who needs war and crime?](/blog1/2008/7/4/who-needs-war-and-crime.html) Jul 4, 2008 
  * [ June 2008 ](/blog1?month=06-2008)
    * Jun 24, 2008  [REVIEW | Unstoppable Global Warming by Fred Singer and Dennis Avery](/blog1/2008/6/24/review-unstoppable-global-warming-by-fred-singer-and-dennis.html) Jun 24, 2008 
    * Jun 17, 2008  [Prices should be falling](/blog1/2008/6/17/prices-should-be-falling.html) Jun 17, 2008 
  * [ April 2008 ](/blog1?month=04-2008)
    * Apr 24, 2008  [The gutting of economics as an anti-state force by fear of offending the powers](/blog1/2008/4/24/the-gutting-of-economics-as-an-anti-state-force-by-fear-of-o.html) Apr 24, 2008 
    * Apr 10, 2008  [The intellectual disease, and part of the inoculation](/blog1/2008/4/10/the-intellectual-disease-and-part-of-the-inoculation.html) Apr 10, 2008 
  * [ February 2008 ](/blog1?month=02-2008)
    * Feb 14, 2008  [Avoid and scurry: FactChecker's Ron Paul smear distracts from the real issues](/blog1/2008/2/14/avoid-and-scurry-factcheckers-ron-paul-smear-distracts-from.html) Feb 14, 2008 

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf) [
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A) [
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf)[
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A)[
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

