![](https://images.squarespace-
cdn.com/content/v1/5720adbdc6fc0891cbcce17c/1475174605195-MBYE2VXXOHWJTICTB29C/image-
asset.jpeg?format=1000w)

SpaceX chief Elon Musk laid out a long-term vision for regular interplanetary
transport and colonization in a 27 September
[presentation](https://youtu.be/H7Uyfqi_TE8) at the International
Astronautical Congress. Details and vision alike were further steps along the
path SpaceX has been pursuing for years, as it repeatedly counters naysayers
by taking up the so-called impossible—and getting it done.

Yet while Musk concentrated on engineering, propulsion, efficiency, and
finance, the toughest limiters on long-term Mars habitation may well turn out
to be biological. Could life evolved on Earth, especially more complex
organisms such as ourselves, thrive there indefinitely and across generations?

Musk’s aim is to make humanity a multiplanetary species. He envisions a city
of a million people on Mars that could become “self-sustaining.” In other
words, if Earth becomes uninhabitable, humanity would have a second home, and
avoid extinction.

Most of the technical issues with Mars habitation can be addressed with
technical means. Radiation can be shielded against. Water, air, and regulated
temperatures can be produced, and chemical plants such as for ship propellant
can be built. Psychological and other factors in long-term, small-scale hab
confinement have already been under study both in space and in remote desert
sims.

 **The gravity of the situation**

However, the harshest sticking point for a colonization plan could be
something that Musk mentioned, but characterized only as a source of fun—38%
Earth gravity on Mars. He presented images of jumping high and lifting heavy
things with ease.

The possible problems would only appear, as they so often do, over the longer
term. Research on the health effects of low gravity has already begun to
suggest a quite unfavorable pattern. Much of this research as been done in
zero g, but long-term exposure to 38% Earth gravity—Mars g—could well produce
many similar effects along the same spectrum, just more slowly.

Zero g has been found to produce not only the expected muscle atrophy in
astronauts, but a host of other health issues, which isometrics and exercise
bikes can only partially limit. Research on both astronauts and lab animals
point to falling bone mineral density and circulatory issues, including
impaired heart health.

Limited research to date thus already suggests negative effects on _three_
_major physical systems_. Yet muscular, skeletal, and circulatory systems are
hardly footnotes to transporting brains; they are most of what a complex
organism consists. Moreover, there is no reason to expect nervous and
reproductive systems to get free passes either, especially over years and
decades.

Studies of zero-g animal embryonic development raise even greater concerns for
long-term Mars colonization. Reproduction among spacefaring rodents has gone
quite badly. Experiments with mice on a Space Shuttle mission resulted in
normal embryos for the earthside controls and no growing embryos in zero g.
Rat groups sent into orbit produced some weightless pregnancies, but with no
resulting births. The pregnancies spontaneously terminated—all of them.

 **Evolutionary and developmental processes could always assume 1g**

Simple organisms such as bacteria are the least likely to be bothered by
gravity changes. The more complex the developmental process, however, the more
likely that aspects of this process will be fine-tuned to happen in 1g. That
said, Mars g could well be better for development than zero g because it would
at least supply developmental processes with _some_ vertical orientation, an
up and a down, albeit with a much weaker signal.

The plans encoded in DNA for growing an organism are completely unlike
engineering plans. They are decentralized developmental instructions. Each
cell responds to its immediate environment. It takes cues from the type of
cell it has become, from the types of cells around it, and from the specific
chemistry and hormones in its blood supply. The so-far unquestioned constant
has been that all earthly life has evolved in 1g (with very tiny variations)
and every embryonic developmental process has evolved to take place in this
1g.

What about adaptation? As powerful a force as evolution by natural selection
is, it tends to require extremely long time scales, on the order of thousands
and more generations, especially for larger-scale adaptations. Too great a
change—or an entirely unprecedented type of change—and a species will simply
not make it.

Adaptations to something so pervasive and otherwise constant as gravity would
have to proceed in steps. If a hypothetical planet’s gravity were to (somehow)
shift to 38% of its former level, but do so over several million years or
more, then life there would have a decent chance of adapting because any given
generation would only be subject to minute changes. However, by the time
gravity reached 95% of its former level, organisms then would already tend to
be optimally adapted to that new 95% level. Checking in again a thousand
generations later, organisms would tend to be well adapted to the newly
current 90% gravity, and so on as gravity crept down. In contrast, evolution
copes far less well with sudden large jumps, which tend to be associated with
mass extinctions.

Temperature variation is a variable to which earthly life is widely adapted,
both across species and to a lesser degree within each organism. Temperature
has changed remarkably and continuously throughout Earth’s 4.5 billion year
history and it also varies starkly with season and geography. Temperature
adaptation therefore has a vast range of evolutionary precedent. Atmospheric
composition, pressure, and radiation levels have also changed back and forth
over geologic history.

What earthly life has never had to do, not even once, is what a Mars
relocation would ask of it. Low g is something that evolution has had no
opportunity to tackle. One of the few rough constants throughout the 3 billion
or more years of earthly life has been 1g.

This still does not make some degree of individual gravity adaptation
impossible now, but it does suggest that this could be a very serious issue
for colonization and a potential deal-breaker for both indefinite stays on
Mars and natural reproduction of future generations there.

 **The probably need for artificial gravity and how to produce it**

For long-term extra-terrestrial colonization, artificial structures capable of
producing artificial gravity that approximate 1g seem more promising. One
concept involves large cylindrical spacecraft on axial rotations. The interior
surface of the cylinder can be built to a size and given a rotation to
approximate 1g over a large habitable interior surface area. That would be
another huge engineering challenge. Yet SpaceX’s work in interplanetary
transport, along with advancements in asteroid mining, would help lead to a
future in which this too could become more feasible.

Given the grave potential health and reproductive risks of long-term exposure
to zero g and/or Mars g for Earth-evolved organisms, those interested in space
colonization ought to assign a high priority, alongside ongoing engineering
work, to low- and zero-g health research. Critical for colonization are three
research areas: effects of Mars g on the health of Earth-leavers, likely
health of long-term Mars residents upon potential return to Earth, and effects
of low and no g on embryonic and childhood development.

Getting people to Mars is an engineering challenge. Musk, SpaceX, and
collaborators are up to the task and well on their way. But the length of time
that hopeful new Martian arrivals can expect to live there, in what state of
health, and with what likelihood of producing healthy offspring, are critical
questions in need of serious research and consideration in relation to any
developing colonization plans. Early animal and astronaut studies combined
with an evolutionary perspective suggest that shorter-term Mars visits are
likely to be far more feasible from a health perspective, that natural
reproduction among colonists might well be out of the question, and that the
development of spacecraft and stations with artificial gravity is likely to be
a biological priority for any future long-term extra-terrestrial residents.

This provides a more realistic base scenario from which to refine the
engineering details of an early Mars transport and habitation system. It may
well be that 1g environments would have to be available at least part of the
time to support health longer term. The most realistic approach to creating
artificial gravity is a rotating habitat, but this could well prove easier to
achieve in space than on a planet with gravitational and atmospheric
resistance, albeit both much lower than Earth’s.

At minimum, it should be clear that lab mice and rats ought to be the first
serious colonists on Mars—and this for quite some time. Their mission: to live
where no earthly creature has lived before. Godspeed to those pioneering
rodents; I suspect they’ll need it.

