[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ 中文 ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [events](../../../blog/events)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Jun 12, 2020  

## Spark University Hackathon

Filecoin is excited to be a challenge partner in the [Spark University
Hackathon](https://summerspark.encode.club/), an 8 week online competition
bringing together developers from universities around the world, to learn,
build, and launch new applications and storage solutions on the Filecoin
network.

The hackathon, which commences on June 15th, will feature virtual
presentations, group workshops, competitions, and community hangouts. Students
and developers will learn about working in a Web3 world and building on the
Filecoin and IPFS network. There are 2 Filecoin challenges with £10k to be won
across 6 prizes.

## CHALLENGE 1:

Build a system for storing, retrieving, and verifying scientific or other
research data on Filecoin. Filecoin will store treasure troves of critically
important public data, such as encyclopedias, open access scientific papers,
Creative Commons data sets, historical documents, and literature. In this
challenge, you will explore those possibilities for storing, using, and
distributing public data. You may wish to take advantage of Filecoin’s data
integrity & verification capabilities, or reference the [Starling Storage
project](https://starlingstorage.io/) for inspiration.

## CHALLENGE 2:

Build a system or app for the decentralized web that stores data on both IPFS
and Filecoin, and demonstrates some convenience aspects of shared features
between the two networks such as shared content identifiers (CID). Filecoin
and IPFS are complementary protocols for storing and sharing data in the
decentralized web. While users aren’t required to use Filecoin and IPFS
together, the two combined solve significant failings of the current web 2.0
infrastructure. You may wish to use the [‘UseIpfs’
flag](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/pull/1843) in the lotus node,
or the [powergate client](https://github.com/textileio/js-powergate-client)
which provides a single JS API that talks to both networks.

## Dates

  * [Register](https://summerspark.encode.club/register-1) by 15th June 2020
  * Hacking begins 15th June 2020
  * Submission date is 15th August 2020
  * Judging 15th August till early September 2020
  * Prizegiving early September 2020

## Support during competition

  * Filecoin technical workshops
  * Social meet-ups
  * 1–1s with En[code] Team
  * Filecoin technical support
  * Online Discord Community

If you have any questions then
[join](https://join.slack.com/t/filecoinproject/shared_invite/zt-dj58b7fq-
weyaTEvjHoYF_ENkQHR6Ig) the Filecoin community slack channel or check out the
competition [FAQs](https://summerspark.encode.club/faq-2). We can’t wait to
see what you build!

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You’ve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

