[Konrad S. Graf](/)

  * [About](/)
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)
  * Evolutionary Health [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health) [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)
  * [Translation](/translation)
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)
  * [Blog](/blog1)
  * [Contact](/contact)

# [Konrad S. Graf](/)

  * [About](/)/
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)/
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)/
  * Evolutionary Health/

    * [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health)
    * [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)

  * [Translation](/translation)/
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)/
  * [Blog](/blog1)/
  * [Contact](/contact)/

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf) [
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A) [
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

# [Konrad S. Graf](/)

# Blog

# [Konrad S. Graf](/)

  * [About](/)/
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)/
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)/
  * Evolutionary Health/

    * [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health)
    * [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)

  * [Translation](/translation)/
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)/
  * [Blog](/blog1)/
  * [Contact](/contact)/

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf) [
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A) [
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

[November 30, 2018](/blog1/2018/11/30/speaking-with-one-year-olds-and-beyond-
age-appropriateness-healthy-authority-and-social-implications)

# [Speaking with one-year-olds and beyond: Age-appropriateness, healthy
authority, and social implications](/blog1/2018/11/30/speaking-with-one-year-
olds-and-beyond-age-appropriateness-healthy-authority-and-social-implications)

[November 30, 2018](/blog1/2018/11/30/speaking-with-one-year-olds-and-beyond-
age-appropriateness-healthy-authority-and-social-implications)/ [Konrad
Graf](/blog1?author=5720adbcb6aa6055fa279727)

For toddlers, facts and simplicity are key. Facts contrast with judgments and
opinions. Simplicity contrasts with being faced with unnecessary choices or
even fake “choices” that the child is not actually being invited to make. Too
many modern parents and educators, though well-intentioned, speak with very
young children in ways that may be unhelpful and unsuitable. After
understanding the reasons for this, more helpful communication strategies can
be used.

These reasons tie into a larger picture of social difficulties that stem from
a troubled relationship with the concepts of both age-appropriateness and
authority. A false-choice dichotomy of _unhealthy_ authority versus no
authority at all (or authority reserved only for the state), has constricted
the space available for the development and practice of _healthy_ authority.
Meanwhile, people of all ages have come to be treated in ways unsuitable to
their developmental range. We begin with speaking with one-year-olds, and
later derive implications for all ages.

## Fact and opinion

The very young child, overflowing with curiosity and presence, is the most
powerful known learning force. They want to know what they can do by trying to
do it. They want to know what to call everyday objects and to know words for
the actions they witness and imitate.

The most important linguistic companion to this is the identification of facts
and causal relationships that are of interest to the child. What does this
look like? The following examples have one-year-olds in mind, but the basic
principles also apply in suitable, evolving ways to rising ages.

> That’s a dog.
>
> There’s the moon.
>
> You have a bear. You threw the bear down. There he is on the floor.
>
> Look, there’s a ball. You threw that ball. It’s rolling over there.
>
> You’re giving the bear a hug!

Notice that these are statements of fact and identification. They are
reassuring in that they conform to observable realities. They are not matters
of contention, mystery, or adult whim. The relationship between the observable
things and the language used to describe them is largely consistent from day
to day. Identification helps make the world, its objects, and the effects of
actions take on a consistent and comprehensible shape.

Statements of opinion, in contrast, are things like this:

> Oh, you’re such a good thrower.
>
> It’s not right to throw the bear on the ground.
>
> You should throw the ball instead.
>
> Don’t you love the poor bear?

Such statements introduce a layer of verbiage and confusion. What is a “good”
throw? What is a good “thrower”? Will a “bad” throw likewise be noted when
seen? What are the criteria for distinguishing the two types of throws? What
are the ethics of toy animal treatment? How do feelings for the bear relate to
the desire to throw something that happens to be in hand?

Compared to stating facts and making concrete observations, stating adult
opinions and sharing adult concerns creates a shifting and unfathomable mess
of complexity and arbitrariness. It creates a less predictable and
comprehensible environment.

## Two types of problematic questions

The second major category of linguistic pitfalls concerns asking very young
children certain types of questions. There is a good place for questions. This
again concerns mainly the identification of facts and relationships. It
entails inviting the child to participate by contributing information that
they may have or can take steps to discover:

> Is there poop in the diaper? (no answer…)
>
> Where is the bear? (search the room…there it is!)
>
> Where is Mike? (peekaboo!)

Such questions should at very young ages be limited to concrete facts and
things. Also to be avoided are questions that require more advanced forms of
introspection or counterfactual comparison, as well as questions formed in the
negative and questions and statements pertaining to abstractions the child
could not possibly (yet) comprehend or have any real interest in.

> How do you feel about the bear getting thrown down like that?
>
> Don’t you want a clean diaper?
>
> This toy was made in China too. Where was that one made?

Two types of questions in particular should be avoided, each for a distinct
reason. The first is invitations to engage in judgments and decisions. The
second is fake preference questions, the answer to which the adult is not
prepared to respect.

The first type asks the child to step back from the direct experience of
acting and learning. It calls on imaginative faculties that will not naturally
predominate in consciousness for quite some time and introduces unnecessary
decision fatigue.

> Do you want to wear the blue pants or the grey ones?
>
> Do you want a banana or an apple?
>
> Would you like to go outside now or stay in?

On reflection, each requires evaluations of non-present alternatives. One has
to imagine each alternative based on past experiences, compare the patterns,
and then make a forward-looking judgment about what one might prefer in the
near future.

These are the types of matters that adults should simply decide. Constantly
asking small children to make decisions and judgments places upon them an
unnecessary stress and burden to which they are not equipped to easily
respond.

Moreover, adults themselves can consider simplifying their own daily decision-
making loads by setting themselves up to face fewer such inconsequential
choices. For example, Steve Jobs bought a hundred copies of exactly the same
sweater and never again had to divert attention to deciding which sweater to
wear. One does not have to go to the same extreme, but the principle can be
usefully applied. Above all, do not subject small children to the kind of
pointless decision fatigue that even adults might consider reducing for
themselves.

Whereas a linguistic challenge mentioned earlier was adults speaking in
judgments when identifying facts would be more useful; here the adult is
trying to get the child to make judgments and decisions when the child is
mainly interested in present facts and identifications. Instead:

> We’re putting on pants. They’re blue.
>
> Here’s a bite of banana.

Second, this brings us to the worst offender of all—the fake question. Here,
even though the adult has already decided that, for example, it is time to go
outside, the adult nevertheless introduces the topic this way:

> Would you like to go outside now?

If the child says yes, this kind of works, but what if they say no? Since the
adult was already committed to going outside, they are left in the awkward
position of arguing that it would actually be better to go outside—in their
esteemed and superior adult opinion. The child protests. Their desire in the
matter, which they had just been _asked about_ and therefore had to reflect
on, bring to mind, commit to, and express, has been summarily ignored and
disrespected anyway—even after all that work!

Far better to just make a statement in a factual form about the current phase
in the established routine:

> It’s time to go outside.

Simultaneously, action should be taken, such as to get shoes and coats. “Start
a movement” of going outside. Preferably, this will be at the same time every
day as part of a regular rhythm and sequence (on which more below). There
never arises any question of going outside. It just _is so_ , like the sun
rising (exceptions for blizzards, hurricanes, etc.).

Adults should strictly avoid asking fake preference questions, even more so as
ages rise. Such can be identified by whether the adult is prepared to respect
whatever the answer is. If not, the adult has no business asking what they
should be stating.

## Present-oriented language

Announcing lists of multi-step sequences should likewise be avoided or at
least minimized. The very young child is in the present.

> I know you want to go outside, but we can’t yet because first we have to
> change your diaper and then get dressed…[blah, blah, blah]

Instead, strive to begin the process with action and identify the steps as
they are taking place.

> [Getting diaper, shoes, etc.]: It’s time to go outside…Now it’s time to
> change your diaper…We’re taking the old one off… and putting the new one
> on…Now its time to put on shoes. One shoe. Another shoe! Now, we are going
> outside [actually going outside]

Both examples speak of a sequence of events. The distinction is that in the
second, the language is used _while_ the events are unfolding, to identify
them as they do. Abstracting a sequence of events that is not taking place is
a separate process that the child will naturally and easily engage in _later_.
What supports this later development now is identifying present facts and
actions as they occur.

Doing so reinforces contact between language and reality. On this, later
development and complexity can be built soundly. People who become accustomed
to vague links between language and reality more easily buy into every sort of
scam and bad idea later in life.

That said, a simple label can introduce a larger process that is about to
commence, such as, “it’s time to go outside” or “we are going to grandma and
grandpa’s house.” This provides a quick orientation and begins to generate
images while most speaking is focused on each step as it unfolds. “Go outside”
and “grandma and grandpa’s house” are quick overview labels, like titles to a
book one is about to open. They are not the whole text.

## Expressed preferences and daily structure

If the child expresses a preference _without_ having been asked, this can be
acknowledged, even if the preference is not acted on. If the content of the
preference is fitting, it can be granted. The blue pants instead of the grey
ones can indeed be selected. However, the preference in this case comes from
the child’s initiative; it has not been elicited through an unnecessary
preference question.

Weightier matters, such as the basic schedule of daily milestones, should not
be easily changed due to such expressions. Let us say it is time to go outside
and the child indicates that they want to stay in instead (typically taking
the form of some inside activity in particular). The adult determines from
experience that it is important to the flow of the day to go out at this time.
Doing so assures, for example, that the child can take a nap easily later. The
adult also realizes from experience that keeping this schedule consistent from
day to day results in more reliable sleeping times. These are causal
connections over extended time that the child is not yet able to apprehend.
Their agent is positioned to do it for them.

The offered expression of preference should be acknowledged, but not
overemphasized or dwelled on. The expression is a fact. It is real. It is not
all-determining.

Insert a natural pause. In a subtle sense, they _are_ staying inside then, if
only for another moment. Then, ideally from a different position in the room
and _without_ saying “but,” add as a new thought:

> It’s time to get shoes on [Moving toward coats and shoes to go outside.]

Both acknowledging the preference and noting the current phase of the daily
schedule are identifications rather than judgments. In contrast to this is a
retort such as:

> You want to play inside, but it’s time to go outside now [perhaps spoken
> with a conflict-oriented attitude]

This is likely to have a quite different effect. Making these two facts into
one statement and placing “but” between them carries an implication of
superiority: “my determination and enforcement of the schedule stands above
your mere preference.”

The suggested alternative is to identify two separate facts: 1) the child
expressed that they wanted to stay in and 2) this is when we go outside and we
are doing so. These are two distinct real things each allowed their own space.

The child is more likely to come around and sooner enjoy going outside if
these facts are given separate recognition and suitable weight. In contrast,
if their preference has been ignored or judged unimportant next to the
schedule through the juxtaposition of a “but” (possibly with some attitude
thrown in), it is likely to take them longer to move on.

If this whole sequence was preceded by a fake question _asking_ if they wanted
to go outside, to which they said “no,” yet the adult nevertheless insisted,
having never intended to respect a no answer to begin with—well, that is just
a by-invitation slow-motion train wreck.

What ties the foregoing observations together is respect for facts and
reality, both of “interior” experience, preference, and meaning and “exterior”
facts, actions, and communications. Assumed in the background to this
discussion is the healthy authority to establish and implement a suitable
daily structure, which we discuss next.

## Adaptive structure, benevolent authority, and rising ages

The competent adults should establish appropriate boundaries, environments,
rhythms, and rules on behalf of children who cannot yet do so themselves.
These structures should be brought into practice in a consistent and
comprehensible way and adapted as needed with new experience and new age
ranges.

For very young children, these structures and rhythms should be treated nearly
as given realities, not merely the current preferences and whims of the
adults. The structure is something that has been created and exists _next to_
both the parent and the child. It is not the current “will” of the child
versus the current “will” of the parent. It is not the _parent’s_ structure
versus the child. It is the structure that has been created and exists to aid
the functioning of the parent-child system. It helps both have good days.
Structure should be created and then adapted as needed to assure that it
continues to fit and serve. It can then function as a consistent, objective
guide and signpost for all involved.

What is behind the modern tendencies in speaking with very young children in
the ways described in the previous sections? Why speak in opinions rather than
describe facts? Why invite children to make decisions that are naturally
better made by adults? Why “ask” fake questions to which “no” is not to be
taken for an answer? Finally, what overarching concept explains both the root
of these non-optimal practices and the commonalities of the practices
suggested to replace them?

Making decisions for children about food and clothing, setting and sticking to
a regular schedule for the day, and even making undiluted factual statements
rather than merely stating opinions, each entails the exercise and embodiment
of benevolent authority. The parent or caregiver is exercising authority in an
agency relationship, acting on behalf of the child, substituting the
(presumably) better judgment of the adult for the poorly or undeveloped
judgment of the child.

Authority, however, has in modern times become heavily associated with
_abusive_ authority. In this view, the “system” serves itself and certain
parties, sometimes at the expense of those in it. The enforcers of the system
are exercising non-benevolent authority in forcing it upon others whom it does
not necessarily serve.

There are profound senses in which this is indeed actually taking place, and
it is particularly egregious with respect to children at older ages and
teenagers. The modern compulsory “education” system was conceived and launched
explicitly as a way to produce uniform (and ultimately uniformed), obedient
citizens to serve in and support the Kaiser’s army. This approach then spread
around the world as states began to impose themselves into the domain of
childhood learning and training.

This “one-size-fits-all” approach (more accurately, “all must be compressed to
fit one size”) supersedes and suppresses self-direction and the discovery and
pursuit of unique life narratives. It is no wonder that young adults struggle
with what to do with their lives when they have just finished up to two
decades of intensive training in ignoring and sublimating what they want to do
with their lives in the face of persistent demands and requirements imposed on
them from the outside. Subjecting human children to a constant diet of rote
recitation of standardized content and moving to the sounding of bells—the
native domains of AI-driven robots and domesticated herd animals,
respectively—undermines and suppresses the curiosity and involvement that
naturally drives children to want to learn new knowledge and perfect new
skills under their own motive direction and on their own timing. Many old-
fashioned approaches to “discipline” have likewise often functioned to serve
the interests of parties other than children themselves.

It may be argued that school-bell ringing also creates a daily structure,
after all. However, the difference is that such a structure cannot be adapted
when it is not working for individuals. In a parent/child and other smaller-
scale context, the schedule exists as a fairly consistent milestone marker,
but one subject to adjustment and refinement to make it work better for those
involved. This does not translate well to a mass scale at which one can too
easily end up with a daily schedule that works poorly for almost everyone!

The “conservative” (in the negative sense) and bureaucratic conceptions of
authority and structure have offered some useful ordering mixed with unhealthy
and unsupportive elements. The “liberal” backlash has tended toward a mistrust
and rejection of authority, including legitimate and helpful natural
authority.

However, wholesale rejection of natural authority results in the likewise
unhealthy desire to attempt to treat children as if they are quasi-“equal”
miniature adults. One mark of this is the tendency to offload choices onto
small children by asking preference questions that do not match their
developmental range. This enables the adult to avoid feeling that they are
exercising authority, something they have come to view as inherently negative,
or at least unpleasant, and probably patriarchal.

## Age-appropriateness for all ages

A third way is needed and its outlines are clear. It consists of defining and
practicing healthy natural authority. In this approach, parents and caregivers
act _on behalf of_ children (and themselves) to make decisions and develop,
adapt, and implement appropriate daily schedules.

It should be emphasized that such structure _also_ has to work for the adults.
This is in the same sense that oxygen masks on depressurized planes are to be
placed first on oneself before helping others. As benevolent agent and
representative of the child, the parent or caregiver strives to provide those
decisions and structures that are actually appropriate and helpful. The
structure is an aid to the _parent-child system_ , not a means of showing a
dominant power position. The latter is indeed what _unhealthy_ authority looks
like.

As children age, agents must hand over the “reigns” of benevolent agency to
the ones who had been represented, step-by-step, as the requisite interests
and capabilities are demonstrated. If the agency authority has been benevolent
and actually helpful, the self-control and responsibility the growing person
gradually acquires may also take up some of that flavor.

The failure of society, including both schools and parents, to proceed with
this handing-over process in a sufficiently timely and age-suitable way seems
to contribute to particularly unhealthy dynamics among those in their teens.
In some ways they are treated too much like premature adults, while in others
they are treated too much like overgrown toddlers. Finally, the “nanny state”
likewise treats adults themselves as overgrown toddlers, bribing and
indoctrinating them into becoming and remaining sickly dependent fans and
worshipers of the parental state. Thus, children are treated too much like
premature adults, adults are treated too much like overgrown toddlers, and
those poor souls, “teenagers,” are treated with a worst-case combination of
both.

A different approach is urgently needed: treat each age of person in a way
appropriate to the phases of development they are actually in (plural “phases”
because there are different “lines” of development, each of which proceeds at
different paces person by person). Appropriate contexts for the exercise of
healthy natural authority and benevolent representation must be identified and
practiced with respect for evolving individual development. This applies
starting at the beginning of life and continues from there.

[__November 30, 2018](/blog1/2018/11/30/speaking-with-one-year-olds-and-
beyond-age-appropriateness-healthy-authority-and-social-implications) /
[__Konrad Graf](/blog1?author=5720adbcb6aa6055fa279727) /
[__[](/blog1/2018/11/30/speaking-with-one-year-olds-and-beyond-age-
appropriateness-healthy-authority-and-social-implications)
](/blog1/2018/11/30/speaking-with-one-year-olds-and-beyond-age-
appropriateness-healthy-authority-and-social-implications)

__[Education](/blog1/category/Education)

__[Children](/blog1/tag/Children), [language](/blog1/tag/language),
[age](/blog1/tag/age), [authority](/blog1/tag/authority),
[facts](/blog1/tag/facts), [opinions](/blog1/tag/opinions)

### [Konrad Graf](/blog1?author=5720adbcb6aa6055fa279727)

  * [__Justice as distinct from rule ...](/blog1/2019/4/26/justice-as-distinct-from-rule-through-law "Justice as distinct from rule through law")
  * [Why can't I see that Bitcoin Cash ... __](/blog1/2017/12/20/why-cant-i-see-that-bitcoin-cash-is-a-scam "Why can't I see that Bitcoin Cash is a scam?")

  * [About](/)/
  * [Bitcoin Theory](/bitcoin-theory)/
  * [Jurisprudence](/jurisprudence)/
  * Evolutionary Health/

    * [Evolutionary Health](/evolutionary-health)
    * [Evo Health Resources](/evo-health-resources)

  * [Translation](/translation)/
  * [Spacial Dynamics](/spacial-dynamics)/
  * [Blog](/blog1)/
  * [Contact](/contact)/

### Konrad S. Graf

Research and writing portal for the work of Konrad S. Graf. Focus areas
include monetary theory and bitcoin, legal philosophy,  evolutionary health,
Japanese translation, and Spacial Dynamics.

[Blog RSS](http://feeds.feedburner.com/Blog-KonradSGraf "Blog RSS")

[![Creative Commons
License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/80x15.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)  
This site is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

  * [ December 2020 ](/blog1?month=12-2020)
    * Dec 8, 2020  [Texas sues four states for violating the Electors Clause: Initial summary and comment](/blog1/2020/12/8/texas-sues-pa-ga-mi-and-wi-for-violating-the-electors-clause-initial-summary-and-comment) Dec 8, 2020 
  * [ December 2019 ](/blog1?month=12-2019)
    * Dec 24, 2019  [New paper: The Bitcoin Block Size Limit, Artificial Scarcity, and Code-Enhanced Public Club Governance](/blog1/2019/12/24/new-paper-the-bitcoin-block-size-limit-artificial-scarcity-and-code-enhanced-public-club-governance) Dec 24, 2019 
  * [ October 2019 ](/blog1?month=10-2019)
    * Oct 1, 2019  [Sound Money Strikes at the Root: A Review Essay on The Bitcoin Standard](/blog1/2019/10/1/sound-money-strikes-at-the-root-a-review-essay-on-the-bitcoin-standard) Oct 1, 2019 
  * [ April 2019 ](/blog1?month=04-2019)
    * Apr 26, 2019  [Justice as distinct from rule through law](/blog1/2019/4/26/justice-as-distinct-from-rule-through-law) Apr 26, 2019 
  * [ November 2018 ](/blog1?month=11-2018)
    * Nov 30, 2018  [Speaking with one-year-olds and beyond: Age-appropriateness, healthy authority, and social implications](/blog1/2018/11/30/speaking-with-one-year-olds-and-beyond-age-appropriateness-healthy-authority-and-social-implications) Nov 30, 2018 
  * [ December 2017 ](/blog1?month=12-2017)
    * Dec 20, 2017  [Why can't I see that Bitcoin Cash is a scam?](/blog1/2017/12/20/why-cant-i-see-that-bitcoin-cash-is-a-scam) Dec 20, 2017 
  * [ November 2017 ](/blog1?month=11-2017)
    * Nov 21, 2017  [Barbell and beef experiments—Lessons and customizations](/blog1/2017/11/21/barbell-and-beef-experimentslessons-and-customizations) Nov 21, 2017 
  * [ October 2017 ](/blog1?month=10-2017)
    * Oct 11, 2017  [Interview: Bitcoin, blockchains, and economic theory](/blog1/2017/10/10/bitcoin-blockchains-and-economic-theory-an-interview-with-konrad-s-graf) Oct 11, 2017 
  * [ August 2017 ](/blog1?month=08-2017)
    * Aug 20, 2017  [BTC plus BCC showing strong combined gains as market attention shifts to next controversy](/blog1/2017/8/19/btc-plus-bcc-showing-strong-combined-gains) Aug 20, 2017 
    * Aug 5, 2017  [Descendants with modifications: Bitcoin’s new and possibly beneficial evolutionary test](/blog1/2017/8/5/descendants-with-modifications-bitcoins-new-and-possibly-beneficial-evolutionary-test) Aug 5, 2017 
  * [ July 2017 ](/blog1?month=07-2017)
    * Jul 23, 2017  [Additional Issues with the Balance and Accuracy of the Anti-Musk Narrative](/blog1/2017/7/23/77vber91a23965ptgjnph82ktt51f9) Jul 23, 2017 
    * Jul 23, 2017  [A Mixed Hero: A Libertarian Reassessment of Elon Musk](/blog1/2017/7/22/hnbbsghwp2hf881mjakf4q2sjnxwh3) Jul 23, 2017 
    * Jul 9, 2017  [Outlines of a Unified Evolutionary Theory of Human and Environmental Health](/blog1/2017/7/9/a-unified-evolutionary-theory-of-human-and-environmental-health) Jul 9, 2017 
  * [ October 2016 ](/blog1?month=10-2016)
    * Oct 15, 2016  [Yes and Nein: Borrowing the best from German and American cultures (and not borrowing the worst)](/blog1/2016/10/15/yes-and-nein-borrowing-the-best-from-german-and-american-cultures-and-not-borrowing-the-worst) Oct 15, 2016 
    * Oct 2, 2016  [Ancient travel food meets modern travel: My ultimate paleo travel meal option](/blog1/2016/10/2/ancient-meets-modern-my-ultimate-paleo-travel-meal-option) Oct 2, 2016 
  * [ September 2016 ](/blog1?month=09-2016)
    * Sep 29, 2016  [SpaceX can get there, but biology a probable Mars residence limiter](/blog1/2016/9/29/spacex-can-get-there-but-biology-likely-a-critical-mars-residence-limiter) Sep 29, 2016 
  * [ August 2016 ](/blog1?month=08-2016)
    * Aug 16, 2016  [The curious case of the faster-healing knee and the larger steaks](/blog1/2016/8/2/the-curious-case-of-the-faster-healing-knee-and-the-larger-steaks) Aug 16, 2016 
  * [ July 2016 ](/blog1?month=07-2016)
    * Jul 10, 2016  [Block Size Political Economy Follow-Up 3: Differentiation from the 21-million Coin Production Schedule](/blog1/2016/7/8/block-size-political-economy-follow-up-3-differentiation-from-the-21-million-coin-production-schedule) Jul 10, 2016 
    * Jul 9, 2016  [Block Size Political Economy Follow-Up 2: Market Intervention through Voluntary Community Rules](/blog1/2016/7/8/block-size-political-economy-follow-up-2-market-intervention-through-voluntary-community-rules) Jul 9, 2016 
    * Jul 8, 2016  [Block Size Political Economy Follow-Up 1: Software Choice, Market Differentiation, and Term Selection](/blog1/2016/7/8/block-size-political-economy-follow-up-1-software-choice-market-differentiation-and-term-selection) Jul 8, 2016 
  * [ April 2016 ](/blog1?month=04-2016)
    * Apr 22, 2016  [Only the faster profits: A powerful health measure and why it is unadvertised](/blog1/2016/4/22/only-the-faster-profits-a-powerful-health-measure-and-why-it.html) Apr 22, 2016 
  * [ February 2016 ](/blog1?month=02-2016)
    * Feb 4, 2016  [Some misplaced explanations of bitcoins as tradable units](/blog1/2016/2/4/some-misplaced-explanations-of-bitcoins-as-tradable-units.html) Feb 4, 2016 
  * [ November 2015 ](/blog1?month=11-2015)
    * Nov 8, 2015  [Announcing new book on bitcoin and legal theory](/blog1/2015/11/8/announcing-new-book-on-bitcoin-and-legal-theory.html) Nov 8, 2015 
  * [ June 2015 ](/blog1?month=06-2015)
    * Jun 20, 2015  [Preview: “The market for bitcoin transaction inclusion and the temporal root of scarcity”](/blog1/2015/6/20/preview-the-market-for-bitcoin-transaction-inclusion-and-the.html) Jun 20, 2015 
  * [ March 2015 ](/blog1?month=03-2015)
    * Mar 11, 2015  [Bitcoin as a rival digital commodity good: A supplementary comment](/blog1/2015/3/11/bitcoin-as-a-rival-digital-commodity-good-a-supplementary-co.html) Mar 11, 2015 
  * [ February 2015 ](/blog1?month=02-2015)
    * Feb 15, 2015  [Jeff Volek presents research indicating low-carb also best way to improve lipid profiles](/blog1/2015/2/15/jeff-volek-presents-research-indicating-low-carb-also-best-w.html) Feb 15, 2015 
  * [ October 2014 ](/blog1?month=10-2014)
    * Oct 25, 2014  [Sidechained bitcoin substitutes: A monetary commentary](/blog1/2014/10/25/sidechained-bitcoin-substitutes-a-monetary-commentary.html) Oct 25, 2014 
  * [ September 2014 ](/blog1?month=09-2014)
    * Sep 19, 2014  [Bitcoin: Magic, fraud, or 'sufficiently advanced technology'?](/blog1/2014/9/19/bitcoin-magic-fraud-or-sufficiently-advanced-technology.html) Sep 19, 2014 
  * [ August 2014 ](/blog1?month=08-2014)
    * Aug 27, 2014  [A tale of bitcoins and $500 suits: Will a rising-value currency not be used?](/blog1/2014/8/27/a-tale-of-bitcoins-and-500-suits-will-a-rising-value-currenc.html) Aug 27, 2014 
    * Aug 21, 2014  ["Bitcoin 2014 Panel: History of Money & Lessons for Digital Currencies Today" with time-based outline](/blog1/2014/8/21/bitcoin-2014-panel-history-of-money-lessons-for-digital-curr.html) Aug 21, 2014 
    * Aug 19, 2014  [“Bitcoin 2014 Panel: Economic Theory of Bitcoin” with time-based outline](/blog1/2014/8/19/bitcoin-2014-panel-economic-theory-of-bitcoin-with-time-base.html) Aug 19, 2014 
  * [ May 2014 ](/blog1?month=05-2014)
    * May 21, 2014  [Gold standards, optionality, and parallel metallic- and crypto-coin circulations](/blog1/2014/5/21/gold-standards-optionality-and-parallel-metallic-and-crypto.html) May 21, 2014 
    * May 20, 2014  [The helpful fable of the "bitcoin": Duality models revisited](/blog1/2014/5/20/the-helpful-fable-of-the-bitcoin-duality-models-revisited.html) May 20, 2014 
    * May 1, 2014  [Bitcoin weekly weighted average price, July 2010 through April 2014](/blog1/2014/5/1/bitcoin-weekly-weighted-average-price-july-2010-through-apri.html) May 1, 2014 
  * [ March 2014 ](/blog1?month=03-2014)
    * Mar 18, 2014  [New paper: "Revisiting conceptions of commodity and scarcity in light of Bitcoin"](/blog1/2014/3/18/new-paper-revisiting-conceptions-of-commodity-and-scarcity-i.html) Mar 18, 2014 
    * Mar 12, 2014  [Another layer of distinction behind Tucker’s humanitarians and brutalists ](/blog1/2014/3/12/another-layer-of-distinction-behind-tuckers-humanitarians-an.html) Mar 12, 2014 
    * Mar 6, 2014  [Newsweek uncovers its own lack of integrity in alleged “Satoshi Nakamoto” discovery reporting](/blog1/2014/3/6/newsweek-uncovers-its-own-lack-of-integrity-in-alleged-satos.html) Mar 6, 2014 
  * [ February 2014 ](/blog1?month=02-2014)
    * Feb 27, 2014  [MtGox fiasco highlights advantages of Bitcoin and damage from regulation](/blog1/2014/2/27/mtgox-fiasco-highlights-advantages-of-bitcoin-and-damage-fro.html) Feb 27, 2014 
    * Feb 14, 2014  [Summary update on Bitcoin transaction malleability adjustments](/blog1/2014/2/14/summary-update-on-bitcoin-transaction-malleability-adjustmen.html) Feb 14, 2014 
  * [ January 2014 ](/blog1?month=01-2014)
    * Jan 13, 2014  [Legal and economic perspectives in the action-based analysis of Bitcoin](/blog1/2014/1/13/legal-and-economic-perspectives-in-the-action-based-analysis.html) Jan 13, 2014 
  * [ November 2013 ](/blog1?month=11-2013)
    * Nov 7, 2013  [Hyper-monetization reloaded: Another round of bubble talk](/blog1/2013/11/7/hyper-monetization-reloaded-another-round-of-bubble-talk.html) Nov 7, 2013 
    * Nov 3, 2013  [Expanded "On the origins of Bitcoin" paper with empirical supplements, other revisions](/blog1/2013/11/3/expanded-on-the-origins-of-bitcoin-paper-with-empirical-supp.html) Nov 3, 2013 
  * [ October 2013 ](/blog1?month=10-2013)
    * Oct 25, 2013  [Strong positive response to "On the origins of Bitcoin"](/blog1/2013/10/25/strong-positive-response-to-on-the-origins-of-bitcoin.html) Oct 25, 2013 
    * Oct 23, 2013  ["On the origins of Bitcoin," my new work on Bitcoin and monetary theory](/blog1/2013/10/23/on-the-origins-of-bitcoin-my-new-work-on-bitcoin-and-monetar.html) Oct 23, 2013 
    * Oct 3, 2013  [Bitcoin and social theory reflections: A review essay between Amsterdam and Atlanta](/blog1/2013/10/3/bitcoin-and-social-theory-reflections-a-review-essay-between.html) Oct 3, 2013 
  * [ September 2013 ](/blog1?month=09-2013)
    * Sep 15, 2013  [The labor, leisure, and happiness game: Psychology, praxeology, and ethics](/blog1/2013/9/15/the-labor-leisure-and-happiness-game-psychology-praxeology-a.html) Sep 15, 2013 
    * Sep 14, 2013  [Bitcoin as medium of exchange now and unit of account later: The inverse of Koning's medieval coins](/blog1/2013/9/14/bitcoin-as-medium-of-exchange-now-and-unit-of-account-later.html) Sep 14, 2013 
  * [ August 2013 ](/blog1?month=08-2013)
    * Aug 22, 2013  [Recommended: Provocative and important new article on Bitcoin and altcoins](/blog1/2013/8/22/recommended-provocative-and-important-new-article-on-bitcoin.html) Aug 22, 2013 
    * Aug 21, 2013  [A banking risk premium: Mt. Gox XBT/USD spread over Bitstamp](/blog1/2013/8/21/a-banking-risk-premium-mt-gox-xbtusd-spread-over-bitstamp.html) Aug 21, 2013 
  * [ July 2013 ](/blog1?month=07-2013)
    * Jul 25, 2013  [Tiger cub growing up? Bitcoin weekly average closing prices year over year](/blog1/2013/7/25/tiger-cub-growing-up-bitcoin-weekly-average-closing-prices-y.html) Jul 25, 2013 
    * Jul 22, 2013  [Bitcoin, price denomination and fixed-rate fiat conversions](/blog1/2013/7/22/bitcoin-price-denomination-and-fixed-rate-fiat-conversions.html) Jul 22, 2013 
  * [ June 2013 ](/blog1?month=06-2013)
    * Jun 30, 2013  [Now in audio on YouTube: Bitcoin and regression theorem article](/blog1/2013/6/30/now-in-audio-on-youtube-bitcoin-and-regression-theorem-artic.html) Jun 30, 2013 
    * Jun 20, 2013  [Bitcoins per gold ounce weekly close YTD](/blog1/2013/6/20/bitcoins-per-gold-ounce-weekly-close-ytd.html) Jun 20, 2013 
    * Jun 3, 2013  [The m's and b's of millibitcoin redenomination](/blog1/2013/6/3/the-ms-and-bs-of-millibitcoin-redenomination.html) Jun 3, 2013 
  * [ April 2013 ](/blog1?month=04-2013)
    * Apr 13, 2013  [Another bump on the road: Bitcoin and bubbles revisited](/blog1/2013/4/13/another-bump-on-the-road-bitcoin-and-bubbles-revisited.html) Apr 13, 2013 
    * Apr 11, 2013  [Short-term Bitcoin exchange trends as Rorschach tests of economic views](/blog1/2013/4/11/short-term-bitcoin-exchange-trends-as-rorschach-tests-of-eco.html) Apr 11, 2013 
    * Apr 6, 2013  [Hyper-monetization: Questioning the "Bitcoin bubble" bubble](/blog1/2013/4/6/hyper-monetization-questioning-the-bitcoin-bubble-bubble.html) Apr 6, 2013 
  * [ March 2013 ](/blog1?month=03-2013)
    * Mar 30, 2013  [A short Bitcoin commentary on "Deflation and Liberty"](/blog1/2013/3/30/a-short-bitcoin-commentary-on-deflation-and-liberty.html) Mar 30, 2013 
    * Mar 19, 2013  [IN-DEPTH | The sound of one bitcoin: Tangibility, scarcity, and a "hard-money" checklist](/blog1/2013/3/19/in-depth-the-sound-of-one-bitcoin-tangibility-scarcity-and-a.html) Mar 19, 2013 
    * Mar 15, 2013  [Individualism, collectivism, "mere" birds, and how to understand ice hockey](/blog1/2013/3/15/individualism-collectivism-mere-birds-and-how-to-understand.html) Mar 15, 2013 
    * Mar 6, 2013  [Bitcoin and social-theory research highlights: Digging for kryptonite](/blog1/2013/3/6/bitcoin-and-social-theory-research-highlights-digging-for-kr.html) Mar 6, 2013 
  * [ February 2013 ](/blog1?month=02-2013)
    * Feb 27, 2013  [IN-DEPTH | Bitcoins, the regression theorem, and that curious but unthreatening empirical world](/blog1/2013/2/27/in-depth-bitcoins-the-regression-theorem-and-that-curious-bu.html) Feb 27, 2013 
    * Feb 20, 2013  [Misesian action theory is an approach to social theory, not just economics](/blog1/2013/2/20/misesian-action-theory-is-an-approach-to-social-theory-not-j.html) Feb 20, 2013 
    * Feb 16, 2013  [Reeva Steencamp's final message, academic hubris, and a legal philosophy view of the case](/blog1/2013/2/16/reeva-steencamps-final-message-academic-hubris-and-a-legal-p.html) Feb 16, 2013 
    * Feb 10, 2013  [Bank robber chatting with Bill Murray illustrates self-control theory](/blog1/2013/2/10/bank-robber-chatting-with-bill-murray-illustrates-self-contr.html) Feb 10, 2013 
    * Feb 1, 2013  [Action-Based Jurisprudence II: Down under (and back again)](/blog1/2013/2/1/action-based-jurisprudence-ii-down-under-and-back-again.html) Feb 1, 2013 
  * [ January 2013 ](/blog1?month=01-2013)
    * Jan 15, 2013  [BOOK COMMENT | The Constitution was already perfectly clear to begin with](/blog1/2013/1/15/book-comment-the-constitution-was-already-perfectly-clear-to.html) Jan 15, 2013 
  * [ November 2012 ](/blog1?month=11-2012)
    * Nov 8, 2012  [Another mummer's farce gone by (and more rumors of wogs and dragons)](/blog1/2012/11/8/another-mummers-farce-gone-by-and-more-rumors-of-wogs-and-dr.html) Nov 8, 2012 
  * [ August 2012 ](/blog1?month=08-2012)
    * Aug 25, 2012  [The problem with shouting “Tyranny!” in a crowded theater](/blog1/2012/8/25/the-problem-with-shouting-tyranny-in-a-crowded-theater.html) Aug 25, 2012 
    * Aug 16, 2012  [Resolving the paradox of value](/blog1/2012/8/16/resolving-the-paradox-of-value.html) Aug 16, 2012 
    * Aug 10, 2012  [IN-DEPTH | Logic takes on the physics paradoxes: Review essay on The Spacetime Model: A Theory of Everything by Jacky Jerôme](/blog1/2012/8/10/in-depth-logic-takes-on-the-physics-paradoxes-review-essay-o.html) Aug 10, 2012 
    * Aug 10, 2012  [IN-DEPTH | Ron Paul, Flatland, and the left–right long con: Beyond the Nolan Chart](/blog1/2012/8/10/in-depth-ron-paul-flatland-and-the-leftright-long-con-beyond.html) Aug 10, 2012 
    * Aug 10, 2012  [Two types of A Game of Apples](/blog1/2012/8/10/two-types-of-a-game-of-apples.html) Aug 10, 2012 
  * [ April 2012 ](/blog1?month=04-2012)
    * Apr 1, 2012  [REVIEW | Liberty message in Hunger Games book much weaker in film](/blog1/2012/4/1/review-liberty-message-in-hunger-games-book-much-weaker-in-f.html) Apr 1, 2012 
  * [ January 2012 ](/blog1?month=01-2012)
    * Jan 22, 2012  [REVIEW | Primal Body, Primal Mind by Nora Gedgaudas](/blog1/2012/1/22/review-primal-body-primal-mind-by-nora-gedgaudas.html) Jan 22, 2012 
    * Jan 18, 2012  [REVIEW | The Paleo Answer by Loren Cordain](/blog1/2012/1/18/review-the-paleo-answer-by-loren-cordain.html) Jan 18, 2012 
    * Jan 18, 2012  [REVIEW | Four Laws that Drive the Universe by Peter Atkins](/blog1/2012/1/18/review-four-laws-that-drive-the-universe-by-peter-atkins.html) Jan 18, 2012 
    * Jan 13, 2012  [Is the left–right spectrum in flatland? A better way to graph Ron Paul](/blog1/2012/1/13/is-the-leftright-spectrum-in-flatland-a-better-way-to-graph.html) Jan 13, 2012 
  * [ December 2011 ](/blog1?month=12-2011)
    * Dec 31, 2011  [REVIEW | Cells, Gels, and the Engines of Life by Gerald H. Pollack](/blog1/2011/12/31/review-cells-gels-and-the-engines-of-life-by-gerald-h-pollac.html) Dec 31, 2011 
    * Dec 23, 2011  [REVIEW | Focused progress with Body by Science, but integration with proper running methods should be possible](/blog1/2011/12/23/review-focused-progress-with-body-by-science-but-integration.html) Dec 23, 2011 
  * [ November 2011 ](/blog1?month=11-2011)
    * Nov 11, 2011  [Who was it that lived at the corner of Tech and Humanities?](/blog1/2011/11/11/who-was-it-that-lived-at-the-corner-of-tech-and-humanities.html) Nov 11, 2011 
  * [ August 2011 ](/blog1?month=08-2011)
    * Aug 30, 2011  [On more robust theoretical foundations for legal philosophy](/blog1/2011/8/30/on-more-robust-theoretical-foundations-for-legal-philosophy.html) Aug 30, 2011 
  * [ August 2010 ](/blog1?month=08-2010)
    * Aug 5, 2010  [My top six picks out of the 26 books I read in Jan–Jun 2010](/blog1/2010/8/5/my-top-six-picks-out-of-the-26-books-i-read-in-janjun-2010.html) Aug 5, 2010 
  * [ January 2010 ](/blog1?month=01-2010)
    * Jan 3, 2010  [REVIEW | Avatar: Storyworld creation, justice and environmentalism on Pandora and Earth](/blog1/2010/1/3/review-avatar-storyworld-creation-justice-and-environmentali.html) Jan 3, 2010 
    * Jan 2, 2010  [2009 H2 reading and audiobook results](/blog1/2010/1/2/2009-h2-reading-and-audiobook-results.html) Jan 2, 2010 
  * [ December 2009 ](/blog1?month=12-2009)
    * Dec 2, 2009  [REVIEW | The Gods Themselves and climate-science Orwellianism: Is optimism still possible?](/blog1/2009/12/2/review-the-gods-themselves-and-climate-science-orwellianism.html) Dec 2, 2009 
  * [ September 2009 ](/blog1?month=09-2009)
    * Sep 21, 2009  [Getting to the Core of the Energy Debate](/blog1/2009/9/21/getting-to-the-core-of-the-energy-debate.html) Sep 21, 2009 
  * [ July 2009 ](/blog1?month=07-2009)
    * Jul 9, 2009  [2009 H1 results](/blog1/2009/7/9/2009-h1-results.html) Jul 9, 2009 
    * Jul 3, 2009  [REVIEW | The Ethics of Money Production by Jörg Guido Hülsmann](/blog1/2009/7/3/review-the-ethics-of-money-production-by-jorg-guido-hulsmann.html) Jul 3, 2009 
  * [ February 2009 ](/blog1?month=02-2009)
    * Feb 20, 2009  [Vaclav Klaus hits the right notes before the European Parliament](/blog1/2009/2/20/vaclav-klaus-hits-the-right-notes-before-the-european-parlia.html) Feb 20, 2009 
    * Feb 17, 2009  [The miles per gallon illusion](/blog1/2009/2/17/the-miles-per-gallon-illusion.html) Feb 17, 2009 
    * Feb 17, 2009  ["Enemies of liberty" more accurately located](/blog1/2009/2/17/enemies-of-liberty-more-accurately-located.html) Feb 17, 2009 
    * Feb 4, 2009  [IN-DEPTH | President Obama's inaugural address—analysis and commentary](/blog1/2009/2/4/in-depth-president-obamas-inaugural-addressanalysis-and-comm.html) Feb 4, 2009 
  * [ January 2009 ](/blog1?month=01-2009)
    * Jan 20, 2009  [Open letter to Bloomberg reporters on "economists of all stripes" claim](/blog1/2009/1/20/open-letter-to-bloomberg-reporters-on-economists-of-all-stri.html) Jan 20, 2009 
    * Jan 6, 2009  [Journalism values dead in US MSM, judging from its coverage of Gaza](/blog1/2009/1/6/journalism-values-dead-in-us-msm-judging-from-its-coverage-o.html) Jan 6, 2009 
  * [ December 2008 ](/blog1?month=12-2008)
    * Dec 31, 2008  [My year by the numbers](/blog1/2008/12/31/my-year-by-the-numbers.html) Dec 31, 2008 
    * Dec 15, 2008  [What can one person do?](/blog1/2008/12/15/what-can-one-person-do.html) Dec 15, 2008 
  * [ November 2008 ](/blog1?month=11-2008)
    * Nov 26, 2008  [Washington State Constitution: Article I, Section 1](/blog1/2008/11/26/washington-state-constitution-article-i-section-1.html) Nov 26, 2008 
    * Nov 20, 2008  [A formula to help with the "Inevitable Question"](/blog1/2008/11/20/a-formula-to-help-with-the-inevitable-question.html) Nov 20, 2008 
    * Nov 20, 2008  [The perfect crime is the one not detected](/blog1/2008/11/20/the-perfect-crime-is-the-one-not-detected.html) Nov 20, 2008 
    * Nov 5, 2008  [1% for Obama; 100% for Brother](/blog1/2008/11/5/1-for-obama-100-for-brother.html) Nov 5, 2008 
  * [ October 2008 ](/blog1?month=10-2008)
    * Oct 31, 2008  ["Successes" of intervention; the emotional challenge of looking at the truth](/blog1/2008/10/31/successes-of-intervention-the-emotional-challenge-of-looking.html) Oct 31, 2008 
  * [ August 2008 ](/blog1?month=08-2008)
    * Aug 26, 2008  [REVIEW | Law and Revolution II: Religion, law, and economic transformation](/blog1/2008/8/26/review-law-and-revolution-ii-religion-law-and-economic-trans.html) Aug 26, 2008 
  * [ July 2008 ](/blog1?month=07-2008)
    * Jul 4, 2008  [Who needs war and crime?](/blog1/2008/7/4/who-needs-war-and-crime.html) Jul 4, 2008 
  * [ June 2008 ](/blog1?month=06-2008)
    * Jun 24, 2008  [REVIEW | Unstoppable Global Warming by Fred Singer and Dennis Avery](/blog1/2008/6/24/review-unstoppable-global-warming-by-fred-singer-and-dennis.html) Jun 24, 2008 
    * Jun 17, 2008  [Prices should be falling](/blog1/2008/6/17/prices-should-be-falling.html) Jun 17, 2008 
  * [ April 2008 ](/blog1?month=04-2008)
    * Apr 24, 2008  [The gutting of economics as an anti-state force by fear of offending the powers](/blog1/2008/4/24/the-gutting-of-economics-as-an-anti-state-force-by-fear-of-o.html) Apr 24, 2008 
    * Apr 10, 2008  [The intellectual disease, and part of the inoculation](/blog1/2008/4/10/the-intellectual-disease-and-part-of-the-inoculation.html) Apr 10, 2008 
  * [ February 2008 ](/blog1?month=02-2008)
    * Feb 14, 2008  [Avoid and scurry: FactChecker's Ron Paul smear distracts from the real issues](/blog1/2008/2/14/avoid-and-scurry-factcheckers-ron-paul-smear-distracts-from.html) Feb 14, 2008 

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf) [
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A) [
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

[ ](https://twitter.com/KonradSGraf)[
](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4aLFppCMtvTSlL74OhM89A)[
](http://www.facebook.com/1184982141521504)

