###### [![Samourai
Wallet](https://64.media.tumblr.com/avatar_36fa1c18c89f_64.pnj) Samourai
Wallet](/)

* * *

* * *

* * *

x

  * [Archive](/archive)
  * [RSS](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/rss)
  * [Simplify](http://simplifytheme.tumblr.com) version 1.22. Theme Designed & Developed by [](http://amitjakhu.com)Amit Jakhu. Powered by [Tumblr](http://tumblr.com).

[Oct 16  
2017](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/166464385507/statement-regarding-
the-upcoming-s2x-hard-fork)

### [Statement regarding the upcoming S2X Hard
Fork](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/166464385507/statement-regarding-
the-upcoming-s2x-hard-fork)

Around mid November 2017 the Bitcoin network will experience what is referred
to as a _hard fork_. After block 494,784 the original Bitcoin block chain
(BTC) will split and a new block chain will be created (S2X). The S2X hard
fork is not only a contentious and unneeded change to the current rules of
Bitcoin, but also an attempt to seize control of the open source development
of Bitcoin by a small group of privileged interests.  

Samourai Wallet is proud to support the Open Source process that has been
fostered by the Bitcoin Core developers. They have consistently released
stable well considered updates in a mission critical environment. As such, our
entire infrastructure relies on Bitcoin Core 0.15 nodes, and **Samourai Wallet
will be following the longest block chain that is valid according to our
Bitcoin Core 0.15 nodes.**

## Fork detection and replay protection

The S2X hard fork is particularly troubling as the development team have
**NOT** added an important safeguard known as 'replay protection' to their
software. Without replay protection any transaction sent on either of the
chains may also be sent on the other chain ('replayed'), leading to the high
potential of users losing funds. Because of the willful insistence by the
developer(s) to not add replay protection, **we are classifying this hard fork
as an attack on the network**.

After block 494,784 if there has been a hard fork due to S2X, an alert will be
prominently displayed on the main screen of the wallet. The alert will prompt
the user to apply replay protection to their BTC. We are ironing out the
method of replay protection we will offer and will provide more information
closer to the event.

![image](https://64.media.tumblr.com/c5c6c5dbcf41d07f668b57517b6d91dd/tumblr_inline_oxx3sh0QXu1tu47rq_500.png)

Once replay protection has been opted into, the user may transact with
confidence that their coins are sufficiently split on both chains and are
protected from replay attacks.

## Accessing S2X tokens

After block 494,784 any UTXO that contains a BTC balance will also contain an
identical balance of S2X. Samourai Wallet users **will not** be able to access
or interact with S2X natively in the wallet. Users wishing to manage their S2X
will need to find a trustworthy S2X wallet.

Once it becomes safe and reliable to transact, Samourai Wallet will detect any
balance of S2X and present an option to automatically convert the entire S2X
balance to BTC. The S2X will be sold at market price and BTC will appear
directly in Samourai Wallet.

You can keep track of the situation by following our twitter:
[@samouraiwallet](https://tmblr.co/muYI1_gUjPuq73VVwX9JXkw) or on our
dedicated support site
[https://support.samourai.io](https://href.li/?https://support.samourai.io)

  * [October 16, 2017](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/166464385507/statement-regarding-the-upcoming-s2x-hard-fork)

  1. [![](https://64.media.tumblr.com/avatar_36fa1c18c89f_16.pnj)](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/ "Samourai Wallet")[samouraiwallet](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/ "Samourai Wallet") posted this 

[Older Post](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/164175489287) [Newer
Post](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/166778873402)
![](https://px.srvcs.tumblr.com/impixu?T=1653239590&J=eyJ0eXBlIjoidXJsIiwidXJsIjoiaHR0cDovL2Jsb2cuc2Ftb3VyYWl3YWxsZXQuY29tL3Bvc3QvMTY2NDY0Mzg1NTA3L3N0YXRlbWVudC1yZWdhcmRpbmctdGhlLXVwY29taW5nLXMyeC1oYXJkLWZvcmsiLCJyZXF0eXBlIjowLCJyb3V0ZSI6Ii9wb3N0LzppZC86c3VtbWFyeSIsIm5vc2NyaXB0IjoxfQ==&U=IDDLEEJLGM&K=92f7b49bfe11aaa673772a61514ec5563fb522f3d9c78368eef11a9f93c5e3f1&R=)![](https://px.srvcs.tumblr.com/impixu?T=1653239590&J=eyJ0eXBlIjoicG9zdCIsInVybCI6Imh0dHA6Ly9ibG9nLnNhbW91cmFpd2FsbGV0LmNvbS9wb3N0LzE2NjQ2NDM4NTUwNy9zdGF0ZW1lbnQtcmVnYXJkaW5nLXRoZS11cGNvbWluZy1zMngtaGFyZC1mb3JrIiwicmVxdHlwZSI6MCwicm91dGUiOiIvcG9zdC86aWQvOnN1bW1hcnkiLCJwb3N0cyI6W3sicG9zdGlkIjoiMTY2NDY0Mzg1NTA3IiwiYmxvZ2lkIjoyMzUxNTI3NzMsInNvdXJjZSI6MzN9XSwibm9zY3JpcHQiOjF9&U=ECLBOFPHCO&K=f18d2b4fb4b5150a95517bc60a94e217e9e88635f71973ca68cd4f47ca41affb&R=)

