[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# State of Blockchains Q2 2019: Blockchain Founders Raise over $822 million by
Q2

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

State of Blockchains Q2 2019: Blockchain Founders Raise over $822 million by
Q2

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

July 2019

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

# Despite several strong indicators in both network activity and user growth
price continues to lag well behind the highs of 2017-18. The ecosystem is more
robust and becoming increasingly professionalised with several new
institutional participants.

## By Joel John and Lawrence Lundy

###

Posted by Lawrence Lundy - July 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

July 2019

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

### All on-chain indicators hint at what is about to come

Markets and the weather hold one common attribute - they function in cycles.
The token economy has suffered a prolonged winter throughout 2018 to Spring
2019. However, things have been looking increasingly positive throughout the
second quarter of 2019. Whilst the price of tokens are already up roughly 3
times, analysis of on-chain activity indicates that a full recovery may be
imminent. Metrics such as transactions, hash power (dedicated to mining) and
the number of new wallets opened have begun showing recovery signs similar to
highs witnessed during the bull run of 2017. While Bitcoin’s rapid surge from
a low of $3,200 to $11,000 surprised many analysts, it could be noted that
price is simply following other indicators driven by actual demand in
comparison to pure hype of the past.

### Venture dealflow is distributed across stages

The Netscape browser or Hotmail led wider Web adoption, but the token
ecosystem is yet to find its gateway to mass adoption. That said, Brave
Browser continues to enjoy strong growth with over 5.5 million users, and a
number of decentralised finance applications such as Synthetix and Nuo show
promise. Investor appetite for risk-taking does not seem to have diminished
either by the lack of early stage traction. A cumulative $822 million was
raised across 279 deals during this time period, 159 of these were seed stage
deals indicating that new entrepreneurial talent is still flowing into the
space. Exchange issued offerings going by the name of ‘IEOs’ have been taking
off, indicating an interest from the retail market in still backing new token
based projects. Bitfinex claims to have raised $1 billion from a token sale
for their exchange even as concerns around Tether’s redeemability looms in the
market. IEOs have proven instrumental in helping startups with discovery,
listings, and liquidity.

![State of Blockchains Q2 2019: Blockchain Founders Raise over $822  million
by Q2 Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Screenshot-2019-06-27-at-15.59.47-1.png)

### Enterprise Blockchains Embrace Going Open-source

Enterprise focus on the space has evolved from merely testing blockchains in
walled environments to now contributing open-source code. JP Morgan and EY
have both released open code towards making transactions on Ethereum private.
Bank consortiums have been collectively working towards issuance of a digital
currency much like stable tokens. However, the biggest development has been
Facebook’s plans to launch a global blockchain initiative focused on payments
and remittances with a consortia of partners including the likes of Uber,
Spotify and. It could indicate that social networks are evolving from an
advertisement driven model to potential social financial service marketplaces
that derive revenue from transactions through them instead of advertisements.
Facebook could also match social data with financial data and develop further
efficiency in how products are advertised to their users.

![State of Blockchains Q2 2019: Blockchain Founders Raise over $822  million
by Q2 Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Screenshot-2019-06-27-at-15.43.30.png)

### Governments involvement continues to rise

Where governments were ambiguously trailing market activity in 2017, they have
become active contributors to the industry’s evolution in 2019. The SEC and
CFTC have captured much of the globe’s attention with their proactive
involvement in the industry. In addition to pursuing legal action against what
may have been unlawful issuances of tokens in 2017, the SEC has clarified its
stance on certain late stage networks such as Ethereum and Kin. Similarly,
regions like Hong Kong and Switzerland have clearly issued guidelines for the
issuance, trading, and ownership of digital assets. Economies like those of
Japan have gone from a fully restrictive, license-based regime to a self-
regulated industry over the past 18 months. One indication of how closely
governments are tracking the space was on display when Facebook’s Libra
launched. The Bank of England suggested it will keep an open mind to the
initiative. Meanwhile, governments in the EU and the US asked for a halt to
it. We may receive more clarity around token ownership in the upcoming G20
summit. However, if trends point to anything - it is that regulators are no
longer learning about tokens. On the contrary, they are active market
participants much like they have been with more traditional asset classes such
as equities and currencies.

### Market Cycles Repeat With Fundamentals In Place

We had reasons to believe a bottom is in when we issued the Q2 report for 2018
and Bitcoin was trading at $6000. Markets slid further downwards amidst fear
and uncertainty. With market capitalisation of the industry now hitting $336
billion at the time of writing this, we have reason to believe that price is
simply trailing other activities within the industry due to a hangover from
the ICO mania of 2017.

  
Unlike the hubris of 2017, the nature of tokens that are seeing traction today
have better-defined ecosystems associated with them, trading infrastructure
has evolved substantially and regulatory compliance has become easier for
institutional giants. With this in context -it is safe to suggest, winter is
finally over and we may witness a full-blown summer around Bitcoin’s halvening
next year.

To find out more read our report below:

**[State of blockchain q2 2019 outlier
ventures](//www.slideshare.net/OVioHQ/state-of-blockchain-q2-2019-outlier-
ventures "State of blockchain q2 2019 outlier ventures") ** from **[Outlier
Ventures](https://www.slideshare.net/OVioHQ)**

_This article is for information purposes only and does not constitute
investment advice. This article does not amount to an invitation or inducement
to buy or sell an investment nor does it solicit any such offer or invitation
in any jurisdiction._

_In all cases, readers should conduct their own investigation and analysis of
the data in the article. All statements of opinion and/or belief contained in
this article and all views expressed and all projections, forecasts or
statements relating to expectations regarding future events represent Outlier
Ventures Operation Limited own assessment and interpretation of information
available as at the date of this article._

___No responsibility or liability is accepted by Outlier Ventures Operations
Limited or Sapia Partners LLP for reliance on the contents of this article._

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

