[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/9114968b7883&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Borderless Capital \(former Algo
Capital\)](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*NAhRTY9nB4Izh9NuAwjmag.jpeg)](https://medium.com/algo-
capital?source=post_page-----9114968b7883--------------------------------)

Published in

[Borderless Capital (former Algo Capital)

](https://medium.com/algo-capital?source=post_page-----
9114968b7883--------------------------------)

[![Borderless
Capital](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/2*8KIOXE8g8bE5g2A_h3sWaA.jpeg)](/@borderlesscapital?source=post_page
-----9114968b7883--------------------------------)

[Borderless Capital](/@borderlesscapital?source=post_page-----
9114968b7883--------------------------------)

Follow

Oct 15, 2019

·

7 min read

#  **Statement from Algo Capital on the recent security breach**

On September 26, 2019, former Algo Capital GP LLC (“Algo Capital”) Chief
Technology Officer Pablo Yabo informed David Garcia and Arul Murugan, the
Managing Partners of Algo Capital, that several wallets he administered had
been compromised. The unfortunate incident resulted in a theft of $1.9 million
— $1.5 million of which were held in wallets owned by an Algo Capital
sponsored venture capital fund (the “Fund”), and the remainder of which were
held in other Algo Capital wallets and Yabo’s personal wallet.

The Algo Capital team has prepared this report to provide more details of the
security breach and the steps taken to mitigate further damage and remediate
losses suffered by the Fund’s Limited Partners. Our goal is to openly
communicate to the community at large and to positively contribute to ongoing
and necessary conversations about security in our space.

 **Defining Algo Capital  
** Founded by David Garcia and Arul Murugan, [Algo
Capital](https://algo.capital/) is a financial institution focused on building
modern financial products to power Algorand’s borderless economy. Our goal is
to accelerate the access, adoption, and liquidity of the Algo, the native
digital currency of the Algorand blockchain.

Our products include the Algo Capital VC Fund, the Algo Tracker Fund, and
Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs) that run multiple Algorand relay nodes. The
Algo Capital VC Fund provides an opportunity for investors to invest in
companies that are building on Algorand’s protocol or contributing to the
development of the Algorand ecosystem.

Algo Capital is a separately owned entity from Algorand Inc. and Algorand
Foundation.

The rest of this post will focus solely on the Algo Capital VC Fund, which
suffered the effects of this incident.

 **Algo Capital Custodianship Overview  
** The majority of the Fund’s assets under management (“AUM”) are held in cold
storage by [Coinbase Custody](https://custody.coinbase.com/), a secure,
independent, and NYDFS-regulated provider of offline institutional storage.
Qualified custodianship through Coinbase Custody offers a robust protection
infrastructure and rigorous standards of security and control, including
adherence to SOC 2 Type I financial security and controls and also insurance
coverage of up to $250 million USD.

Note: 100% of the assets in the Algo Tracker Fund are held in cold storage by
Coinbase Custody and were not impacted by this incident.

 **Fund Administration and Auditing  
** The Fund is professionally administered by [Trident
Trust](https://tridenttrust.com), a third-party fund administrator. Trident
Trust provides independent corporate, fund, and trust administration services
to many of the world’s top hedge fund and private equity funds, and in 2018
Trident secured the highest rankings for global funds in an evaluation by
[Global Custodian](https://tridenttrust.com/knowledge/awards-
accolades/trident-trust-tops-global-custodian-fund-administrator-rankings-
november-2018/) magazine.

The Fund is also audited by Cohen & Co., an experienced provider of
accounting, consulting and auditing services. Cohen & Co. is recognized for
its technology experience and in-depth expertise providing services to the
cryptocurrency and blockchain space.

 **The Security Breach  
** In the early morning hours of September 26th (UTC), a hacker or group of
hackers gained access to some recovery seed backup data that was kept in an
encrypted file in an offline device. The recovery seed backup of the cold
wallets allowed access to Algo wallets, a USDT Trezor wallet, and a BTC Trezor
wallet.

The cold wallets were holding:

  * Algos and Tether USDT associated with the Fund;
  * Algos held by Algo Capital but unrelated to the Fund; and
  * Algos and Bitcoins personally held by Yabo.

The hackers were able to access the recovery seed backup through a
sophisticated remote access attack on Yabo’s mobile phone, which had evidently
been compromised prior to this incident. Because of this exposure, the cold
wallets become hot wallets, and the hackers took control of the funds held
within. At this time, Algo Capital is engaging with cybersecurity forensic
services to understand how the phone was compromised. Schedule A below lists
all of the wallets impacted by this attack.

The impacted Fund assets had previously been held in cold wallets administered
by Yabo, in accordance with Algo Capital’s security practices. However,
through regrettable human error, the hackers were able to access a temporary
decrypted file that enabled access to the recovery seeds backup and therefore
to the funds held in these wallets.

In a short period of time, the hackers presumably transferred the stolen Algos
to a number of Binance wallets in an apparent attempt to liquidate the assets.
Schedule B, below, lists all of the destination wallets involved in this
incident, which Algo Capital identified as Binance depositing addresses. Algo
Capital suspects that the USDT funds were also transferred to unidentified
exchange deposit addresses and was unable to identify where Yabo’s personal
Bitcoins were transferred.

 **Algo Capital Response and Law Enforcement Involvement  
** Yabo immediately informed the Managing Partners of the security breach once
he noticed it. He also notified local law enforcement and filed a report in
his home country of Argentina.

The Managing Partners immediately informed our fund administrator, Trident
Trust, which provided advice and also connected us to several key security
experts. Trident is also working closely with our auditor, Cohen & Co.

We also promptly informed the Fund’s Limited Partners of the security breach,
as well as informed the security team at Binance, which is collaborating and
conducting its own investigation of the incident. According to Binance, all
the accounts related to the incident have been quarantined.

We reported the incident to the Federal Bureau of Investigation and are
working with the local Atlanta FBI office, which is investigating the case. At
this point in time, the FBI is also in contact and working with the Binance
security team.

In response to the incident, Yabo voluntarily chose to resign from the
company, and we have accepted his resignation. He also agreed to reimburse a
significant portion of the loss to the Fund. You can read his statement in his
[blog post here](/@pipaman/algo-capital-security-breach-aedccf9e33c2).

 **Reimbursing 100% of the Loss to Limited Partners and Investors  
** The Managing Partners of Algo Capital have committed to reimbursing 100% of
the impacted funds. This reimbursement accounting will be administered by
Trident Trust. Cohen & Co. is auditing the accounting to ensure full
compliance in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
(GAAP).

 **External Support and Collaboration  
** In the hours and days since the incident, we have received significant
counsel and support from a number of security experts within the
cryptocurrency and blockchain communities. We want to give special thanks to
**** Uri Stav, the Chief Security & Development Officer of
[Genesis](https://genesistrading.com), who spent considerable time with the
Managing Partners and also provided many valuable insights. We also would like
to acknowledge the following individuals and organizations for their help,
including:

  * Trident Trust and its team
  * Cohen & Co. and its team
  * The Binance security team
  * BitGo’s Chief Security Officer Tom Pageler and his team
  * Brandon Caruana from Cartan Group
  * The Coinbase Custody team
  * Misha Hanin and Boris Heismann from DeepDive.Tech
  * Eric Freeman from Cyzen, a Friedman LLP company
  * The Federal Bureau Investigation (FBI) team

There are additional security experts from other large organizations who have
also helped us that we cannot name at this time. The team at Algo Capital is
immeasurably grateful for the support offered by all of these parties. We look
forward to continuing to work with these partners, as well as a select group
of security services companies, to remedy this incident and make Algo Capital
a stronger organization.

 **Reinforced Security Measures  
** Moving forward, Algo Capital is viewing this unfortunate incident as an
opportunity to institute stronger security measures in our organization and
contribute to the industry at large. As an immediate measure, we have moved
100% of our funds to Coinbase Custody. Coinbase also acted swiftly to create
many additional cold wallets so we can have all our digital assets directly
managed within Coinbase Custody.

We intend to implement enterprise-grade security and best security practices
through new partnerships with best-in-class security service providers. Algo
Capital is in the process of hiring [DeepDive.Tech](http://deepdive.tech/), a
world-class cyber security service company, to provide a risk assessment and
an enterprise-grade security infrastructure. Our goal is to examine and
redesign our existing security processes from top to bottom to find potential
risk points, and institute new processes that will address these gaps. We also
are looking to engage with [Cyzen, a Friedman LLP company](https://cyzen.io/),
one of the most well-recognized security and forensic auditors, to ensure that
our new reinforced infrastructure meets the highest standards.

We will continue to engage with top security experts on an ongoing basis to
evaluate our processes and hold our organization to the highest possible
financial management standards.

We will also look to engage with the industry at large and play a key role in
helping other organizations avoid what has become a serious problem in our
industry. We are committed to investing resources and time to fight
cybersecurity risks in blockchain.

 **Final Thoughts  
** We regret that this incident occurred and hope that through our thorough
efforts to resolve the impact to our Limited Partners and to gird our
infrastructure against future attacks, we will earn the trust of our
investors, Limited Partners, stakeholders and the greater blockchain
community.

Algo Capital is a private fund and it is not required to publish these details
publicly. Still, we decided to share these details to demonstrate the
commitment of transparency with the Algorand ecosystem and the blockchain
community at large. In the following week, Algo Capital is also looking to
publish a comprehensive report detailing its investment strategy, the Fund’s
vision, the Algos it is holding (we are holding almost all the Algos in the
fund) and its role in the ecosystem.

Thanks to the community for their understanding and support, and to all the
people who make the industry better and safer.

 **David Garcia & Arul Murugan  
**Founders and Managing Partners  
Algo Capital GP LLC

 **SCHEDULE A**

  * Algo VC Fund wallets compromised in the attack: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1VX_Oo_kuSAQfYxTCf9tFC6BeNut5QnB6z_hV8UNmQYQ](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1VX_Oo_kuSAQfYxTCf9tFC6BeNut5QnB6z_hV8UNmQYQ/edit#gid=0)
  * Non-Algo Capital VC Fund wallets compromised in the attack: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1GIU2COi70Uc_d0TzP1g7U2lvrR1ZtAKG3nREzWlF9q0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1GIU2COi70Uc_d0TzP1g7U2lvrR1ZtAKG3nREzWlF9q0/edit#gid=0)
  * Compromised wallets owned personally by Pablo Yabo: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1i39T3n5T4CYGR3mKHc6DIivHvDOfGEMstX3_TuRS1Ps](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1i39T3n5T4CYGR3mKHc6DIivHvDOfGEMstX3_TuRS1Ps/edit?usp=sharing)

 **SCHEDULE B**

  * Main attacker address split into multiple accounts: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1IvvCBem3oKSnr7lB0QvnWAhQ2elOfrD3M5zPQC-kdPc](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1IvvCBem3oKSnr7lB0QvnWAhQ2elOfrD3M5zPQC-kdPc/edit#gid=0)
  * Stolen Algos deposited into Binance accounts [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eGTH3fG50fVGXKk2X8xuDLbMNEk3GWCePuHKX7G9zQA](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eGTH3fG50fVGXKk2X8xuDLbMNEk3GWCePuHKX7G9zQA/edit?usp=sharing)

 ** _Disclaimer:_** _Algo Capital is not related to or affiliated with
Algorand Inc, Algorand LLC, Algorand Foundation, or any of their subsidiaries.
The views, opinions, and communications of Algo Capital are generated
independently by the General Partners of Algo Capital, and are not endorsed or
approved in any way by Algorand Inc, Algorand LLC, Algorand Foundation, or any
of their subsidiaries or affiliates._

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Borderless Capital (former Algo Capital)](/algo-
capital?source=post_page-----9114968b7883--------------------------------)

Borderless Capital is a modern financial institution investing capital and
building financial products that accelerate access, bootstrap adoption and
creates value globally through the Algorand Borderless Economy

[Read more from Borderless Capital (former Algo Capital)](/algo-
capital?source=post_page-----9114968b7883--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Board](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*IfBRfRfXq4ob3dctUw1ovg.jpeg)](/@boardofficial?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Board

](/@boardofficial?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Add (opt-in) BOARD to Algorand Wallet — User Guide

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*1fC4gaiqJxvqTb94pvvujA.png)](/@boardofficial/add-
opt-in-board-to-algorand-wallet-d87137a95497?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[[![TransformHub](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Z3BFsiQrUYe00mt5MySUVQ.png)](/@transformhub?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[TransformHub

](/@transformhub?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Future of Money: Where will Blockchain take us next?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*QuDPhkrQWGJI5sow.png)](/@transformhub/future-
of-money-where-will-blockchain-take-us-
next-f7f5f2a17c06?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Chimdalu
Ofoegbu](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*K49PPEiVhee8ffDsyvL8bA.jpeg)](/@ben-
sage?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

[Chimdalu Ofoegbu

](/@ben-sage?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

## Why I Love The MANTRADAO Project.

](/@ben-sage/why-i-love-the-mantradao-
project-8f7561ab5cff?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Austras
Purana](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*o7bmIM5ZDnC5oFvxEG7Erg.png)](/@austras?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Austras Purana

](/@austras?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

## Crypto.com (CRO) in focus, best exchange token or left behind?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*yFLwi-
jbSAMgW9vut1jrtg.jpeg)](/@austras/crypto-com-cro-in-focus-best-exchange-token-
or-left-behind-8a881f83e082?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Aniel
Essien](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*x2lkZMi_chTYhtSQZKTJDw.jpeg)](/@anieljoshua94?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Aniel Essien

](/@anieljoshua94?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## A gleams at Comdex growth analysis

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*kI7c4tOmFA876b9MiiDwdQ.jpeg)](/@anieljoshua94/a-gleams-
at-comdex-growth-analysis-ef2d3c548a4d?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![aslam
mansuri131](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*TRLdhqSr_oK3NsNB)](/@aslammansuri131?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[aslam mansuri131

](/@aslammansuri131?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## darico ecosystem

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*2VQmgq5Uota6JsD5.png)](/@aslammansuri131/darico-
ecosystem-21527560ec04?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![DV
Chain](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*bzQ3fH2Hw0sgLPDQaOrXgg.jpeg)](/@DV_Chain?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[DV Chain

](/@DV_Chain?source=post_internal_links---------6----------------------------)

in

[DV Chain

](https://medium.com/dvchain?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## America’s Fifth-Largest Banking Institution US Bank to Offer Cryptocurrency
Custody

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*0pWHnVlq6TJ856RH.jpg)](/dvchain/americas-
fifth-largest-banking-institution-us-bank-to-offer-cryptocurrency-
custody-1443a7c93717?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Bitcoin
Support](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*UQ5KcTYk3yWq2KRK9BE48Q.png)](/@bitcoinguidance?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Bitcoin Support

](/@bitcoinguidance?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Kraken closes its global headquarters, claiming that ‘San Francisco is
unsafe.’

![Kraken closes its global headquarters, claiming that 'San Francisco is
unsafe.'](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*MYZtLmDHiPXEtjqu.png)](/coinmonks/kraken-
closes-its-global-headquarters-claiming-that-san-francisco-is-
unsafe-12f64e196575?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----9114968b7883--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
9114968b7883--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
9114968b7883--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
9114968b7883--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
9114968b7883--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----9114968b7883--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----9114968b7883--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Falgo-
capital%2Fstatement-from-algo-capital-on-the-recent-security-
breach-9114968b7883&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Borderless
Capital](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/2*8KIOXE8g8bE5g2A_h3sWaA.jpeg)](/@borderlesscapital)

[

## Borderless Capital

](/@borderlesscapital)

102 Followers

Borderless Capital is a financial institution focused exclusively on powering
Algorand’s borderless economy.

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F1c33ae759495&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Falgo-
capital%2Fstatement-from-algo-capital-on-the-recent-security-
breach-9114968b7883&newsletterV3=554e3c0c6258&newsletterV3Id=1c33ae759495&user=Borderless+Capital&userId=554e3c0c6258&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![The Wealth
Advisor](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*HvmUSQYTmL5W66MFd_2UWA.png)](/@wealthadvisor?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------13a26243_3a43_41cf_94e1_54c20c4307e3-------)

[The Wealth Advisor

](/@wealthadvisor?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
13a26243_3a43_41cf_94e1_54c20c4307e3-------)

in

[The Wealth Advisor

](https://medium.com/the-wealth-advisor?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------13a26243_3a43_41cf_94e1_54c20c4307e3-------)

## Infinity Q Diversified Alpha: Worst. Fund. Ever?

](/the-wealth-advisor/infinity-q-diversified-alpha-worst-fund-
ever-b0d74d5ea1ed?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
13a26243_3a43_41cf_94e1_54c20c4307e3-------)

[[![Koji
Higashi](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*5dXizZrXmlqyISamsyMEug.jpeg)](/@coin_and_peace?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------13a26243_3a43_41cf_94e1_54c20c4307e3-------)

[Koji Higashi

](/@coin_and_peace?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
13a26243_3a43_41cf_94e1_54c20c4307e3-------)

## Diamond Hands Routing Rewards and Monthly Stats(April 2022)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*rzGWErX-
tPxLB5tAud1INQ.png)](/@coin_and_peace/diamond-hands-routing-rewards-and-
monthly-stats-april-2022-4766cf8653cf?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------13a26243_3a43_41cf_94e1_54c20c4307e3-------)

[[![Blockchain
Singularity](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*3Z4UVyhwDAK2ZUur)](/@blockchainsingularity?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------13a26243_3a43_41cf_94e1_54c20c4307e3-------)

[Blockchain Singularity

](/@blockchainsingularity?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------13a26243_3a43_41cf_94e1_54c20c4307e3-------)

## 💶 🇪🇺 | Union 🤖 Users Prefer Decentralized 👛 Services

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*oZvfwF-
fCcQMfQRCkKzAoA.png)](/@blockchainsingularity/union-users-prefer-
decentralized-services-51d24e92a0a4?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------13a26243_3a43_41cf_94e1_54c20c4307e3-------)

[[![Mike
Gilchrist](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*4XwLCS6ThXA0MXlTqWUi3w@2x.jpeg)](/@mikegilchrist84?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------13a26243_3a43_41cf_94e1_54c20c4307e3-------)

[Mike Gilchrist

](/@mikegilchrist84?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
13a26243_3a43_41cf_94e1_54c20c4307e3-------)

## A bunch of questions, a few visions

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*kDVxwllIBR1nBjbLqm_xDg@2x.jpeg)](/@mikegilchrist84/greetings-4e58c91e4bd4?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------13a26243_3a43_41cf_94e1_54c20c4307e3-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

