

Menu

#  [![Placeholder](//images.squarespace-
cdn.com/content/v1/5a479ee3b7411c6102f75729/1547646516693-WBRREM74TRC4IAX5G0PN/Placeholder%2BLogo.png?format=1500w)](/)

Street Address

City, State, Zip

Phone Number

Your Custom Text Here

# [![Placeholder](//images.squarespace-
cdn.com/content/v1/5a479ee3b7411c6102f75729/1547646516693-WBRREM74TRC4IAX5G0PN/Placeholder%2BLogo.png?format=1500w)](/)

# Placeholder Blog

Placeholder Blog

#  [Stop Burning Tokens – Buyback and Make Instead](/blog/2020/9/17/stop-
burning-tokens-buyback-and-make-instead)

September 17, 2020 [Joel Monegro](/blog?author=5a479edd5e0ed81e5677b589)

In most “buyback-and-burn” token models, a network generates income in one
_currency token_ and uses the proceeds to buy-back and “burn” its own native
token. The intent is to grow token value by reducing its supply as income
grows. Buybacks tend to accomplish that goal, but burning affects currency and
capital assets in different ways. When it comes to money, reducing the supply
can increase the unit value of currency. But when it comes to capital assets
[like governance
tokens](https://www.placeholder.vc/blog/2019/2/19/cryptonetwork-governance-as-
capital), _issuance_ is key to capitalization and burning can get in the way
of growing fundamental value.

First, we’ll establish a test for whether a token is currency or capital.
Then, we’ll study the components of buyback-and-burn and consider their
consequences. Finally, we’ll sketch an alternative token model, _buyback-and-
make_ , which keeps the benefits of buybacks without the drawbacks of burning
capital.

### **Currency and Capital Tokens**

An asset is _Currency_ when its value comes from exchange: when it’s spent to
consume goods or services, like the U.S. dollar. ETH, for example, serves as
currency because you spend it to consume Ethereum services and also to buy
other assets. On the other hand, an asset is _Capital_ when its value comes
from [governance](https://www.placeholder.vc/blog/2019/2/19/cryptonetwork-
governance-as-capital) or _equity participation_ in a pool of resources. For
example, company shares are basically voting instruments that govern the
distribution of power and profits.

When a network generates income in one currency and re-distributes the value
to its token holders in any way, we know it’s a capital asset because its
fundamental value comes from those flows. [MKR](http://makerdao.com) and
[ZRX](https://0x.org/) are good examples: both networks generate income in ETH
and redistribute the value to their (governance) token holders. Maker does it
with a buy-and-burn model, while 0x re-distributes the ETH proportionally to
those who stake ZRX and market-make on the network. But both tokens are
capital assets that derive their value from currency flows.

 _(An asset can be both currency and capital – see_[ _Cryptonetwork Governance
as Capital_](https://www.placeholder.vc/blog/2019/2/19/cryptonetwork-
governance-as-capital) _. In the transition to proof-of-stake, ETH 2.0 will
transform into a currency-and-capital asset.)_

###  **How Buybacks Work**

With these distinctions in mind, let’s turn to buybacks. In the public
equities world, buybacks are a popular way for large companies to boost their
stock price by buying their own shares in the market. Equity buybacks work
**** by increasing the _outstanding shareholders’_ participation in the
capital of the organization. However, bought-back shares are not automatically
destroyed. By default, they continue to be held by the company as _treasury
shares_. Unlike outstanding shares, treasury shares can’t vote or participate
in the economics of the organization. Both are circular acts: there’s no sense
in distributing profits to yourself, and you can’t buy what you already own.

By reducing the number of outstanding shares, buybacks improve certain
valuation ratios (e.g. earnings per share, etc.) for all remaining outstanding
stakeholders in the market. This justifies paying a higher price per share.
But actually destroying treasury stock after a buyback is not economically
useful. The buyback alone does all the work because what affects the price is
how many shares _participate_ , not how many _exist_ – and treasury shares
don’t participate.

From a governance standpoint, burning would indeed guarantee that those
particular shares are never re-issued. But the people with the power to burn
treasury stock are often the same people with the power to issue new units
anyways. Maker, for example, burns MKR as it earns income, but can issue new
MKR in case of a solvency emergency (which happened in March 2020). What
ultimately controls token supply is the governance protocol and the social
contract among stakeholders, so burning doesn’t actually guarantee protection
against dilution.

The key point is that removing capital units from circulation works by
improving participation ratios for outstanding stakeholders, not _inherently_
because the asset is made “scarcer”, and not necessarily because the total
value of the equity increased. Reducing the number of shares may boost the
price, but it doesn’t change the overall value of the system. It’s the same
for capital tokens in cryptonetworks: buybacks do have a positive influence on
price, but burning doesn’t create new value, it only _redistributes_ current
value among a smaller group of people. There’s a reason why companies that do
a lot of buybacks are associated with low growth.

###  **Issuance, Capitalization, and Growth**

Much of cryptocurrency culture associates the idea of “inflation” with an
erosion of value. This can be true in the world of money. But note that the
terms inflation and deflation are monetary concepts that don’t really
translate to the world of capital, where _issuance_ of participation shares is
key to capitalizing the equity of a system. Issuance is the cheapest way to
acquire capital for growth. In startups, for example, it’s how founders gather
human and financial capital (talent and money) at a lower cost.

Issuance of capital shares how you acquire the resources needed to scale. It
works the same way for more decentralized systems like
[DAOs](https://www.placeholder.vc/blog/2020/5/7/aragon-daos) and protocols. We
know tokens can be issued to compensate the various [participants in a
cryptonetwork](https://www.placeholder.vc/blog/2019/1/5/the-cryptoeconomic-
circle) who contribute different kinds of capital: to producers for their
[work](https://www.placeholder.vc/blog/2019/1/5/the-cryptoeconomic-circle), to
users for their [continued
business](https://www.placeholder.vc/blog/2020/1/30/thin-applications), and to
investors for their
[capital](https://www.placeholder.vc/blog/2019/1/10/funding-cryptonetworks)
and [liquidity](https://www.placeholder.vc/blog/2020/5/22/proof-of-liquidity).
In all cases, issuance helps grow fundamental value by growing the capital of
the system, which then turns into a greater token price.

This is why tools like mining, proof-of-stake, and liquidity rewards can work
so well. The effects are clear in the new world of [liquidity
mining](https://insights.deribit.com/market-research/comparing-liquidity-
mining-and-proof-of-work/) in DeFi: protocols that reward users with tokens in
exchange for capitalizing the system by providing liquidity (e.g. Compound,
Balancer) grow at a _much_ faster rate than those without such incentives for
capital (e.g. Maker, Uniswap – until [just
now](https://uniswap.org/blog/uni/)). But the basic concept, of course, goes
back to Bitcoin itself – and even further back to the invention of joint-stock
companies as shared organizations. Buying growth with dilution is a good deal
whenever the value of the equity grows faster than the issuance rate. And as
the value of the equity grows, it costs less and less dilution to acquire more
capital.

It’s not that you can’t grow without issuance, but without _any_ new issuance,
there isn’t as much of an incentive to continuously capitalize the system. As
a token holder, you’re more likely to increase your contribution over time if
there’s some dilution than if there’s none. With burning the incentive is
worse, because you’re increasing the participation of token holders without
requiring them to increase their investment. And _whenever the price of the
token does not immediately grow at the same rate as the burn (which is most of
the time) burning actually decreases the overall market cap of the network_.

 **Reducing the supply of shares or tokens over time can discourage
capitalization just like deflationary currencies discourage consumption.** And
if the rate of burning ever exceeds the rate of fundamental growth, you risk
_decapitalizing_ the system by over-concentrating ownership at the expense of
liquidity and long-term value. There’s far more upside to smart issuance than
there is in clutching to scarcity. For example, you can reissue treasury
assets to continuously incentivize productive capital, resell them to raise
financial capital, or even use them as collateral for credit. We have to get
over the idea that increasing scarcity automatically means more value. So
instead of burning, let’s think about more creative ways to recycle that
capital.

###  **Buyback and Make**

To summarize our points, buybacks are a fine way to socialize profits to
capital-token holders, but burning limits the network’s ability to reinvest in
itself. _Buyback and Make_ is an alternative proposal that uses an [automated
market maker](https://medium.com/multi-io/automated-market-makers-amm-
breakdown-d3338f027230) to keep the financial benefits of buybacks and
issuance *without* the drawbacks of burning and without perpetually increasing
token supply. We can do this with a protocol treasury implemented as a
network-owned Balancer “[smart
pool](https://docs.balancer.finance/protocol/concepts#smart-contract-owned-
controlled-pools)” that serves as an _automatic buyback machine_ , _token_
_issuance pool_ , and _liquidity provider_.

![Buyback and Make](https://images.squarespace-
cdn.com/content/v1/5a479ee3b7411c6102f75729/1599932155594-P4HGGS94VZSHEHMQ4H9F/buyback+and+make+placeholder.vc)

Buyback and Make

It’s a similar setup as [the cryptoeconomic
circle](https://www.placeholder.vc/blog/2019/1/5/the-cryptoeconomic-circle).
The **Protocol/DAO** smart contracts coordinate production and regulate the
exchange of productive and financial capital between producers and consumers.
**Producers** commit work and resources (productive capital) to the network in
exchange for capital tokens, subject to issuance protocol. **Users** consume
and pay for the network’s service by spending a determined currency or fee-
token. We add a **Smart Treasury** implemented as a Balancer pool controlled
by the Protocol/DAO contracts. From now on, let’s say our Network generates
income in ETH, and our token is called _TKN_.

[Balancer](https://balancer.finance/) is a [programmable liquidity
protocol](https://www.placeholder.vc/blog/2020/7/20/balancer-thesis) and
decentralized exchange. To start, it allows you to create an indexed basket of
up to 8 tokens. You can choose the index based on your requirements, but for
our example lets make it 10% ETH (our currency token) and 90% TKN (our capital
token). We also configure the pool such that only the controller (i.e. the
protocol) can add and remove liquidity from the pool, and let’s also say we
minted a total maximum supply of 10,000,000 TKN and deposited them into the
pool along with some ETH. Our new Balancer Network Treasury pool can do many
things:

 **1\. Automatic Buyback Machine.** By depositing all (or a portion) of the
ETH income generated into the pool. Whenever the value of the ETH in the
Network Treasury exceeds the 10% index, our Balancer pool will automatically
seek to regain balance by selling the excess ETH for TKN in the open market
until the 90/10 index is restored. Because the only other token in our pool is
TKN, the only way to restore balance is by buying TKN from the market (or
adding new TKN to the pool). If there are no sellers, the pool responds with a
higher TKN price.

Because our pool is owned by the network, this process is equivalent to a
buyback – and it has the same positive effect on price. As income flows into
the network and makes it to the Smart Treasury, buybacks happen in real-time
and are automatically managed by the Balancer protocol. This is a lot more
efficient, not only because it saves core developers from maintaining complex
buy-and-burn code, but it also removes the need for special
“[keeper](https://developer.makerdao.com/keepers/)” bots and incentives to
provide the liquidity needed for buy-and-burn operations. Existing
arbitrageurs in the Balancer market provide this service for free in real-
time, drastically simplifying the protocol.

 **2\. Token Issuance Pool.** Protocols with issuance incentives either issue
new tokens as capital comes into the network or mint a certain amount of
tokens in a single event and distribute them according to an issuance
schedule. Our model uses the pre-mint method (although nothing prevents a
hybrid approach) and deposits the number of tokens destined for distribution
in the Smart Treasury from the beginning. Because only the protocol’s
contracts can add and remove liquidity from the pool, the network can source
the TKN it needs for incentives simply by withdrawing them from the Smart
Treasury. Just like any other method, the network’s issuance model can be
executed by a smart contract.

> **_Bonus:_** _The reverse of the buyback operation allows the Smart Treasury
> to act as an_ ** _automatic capitalization machine._** _Just like adding ETH
> (or any fee-token) to the pool triggers an automatic buyback, withdrawing
> currency has the same economic effect as issuing TKN from the Treasury and
> selling it for currency. This feature can be used to raise money for
> expenses continuously, as necessary. For example, a DAO could withdraw
> currency to pay for development costs, or a protocol could use the fee-token
> balance in the treasury as an “insurance fund” backed by the network’s
> token. This is useful for protocols that use their tokens as last-resort
> insurance (like Maker’s MKR), but again without the need for special keepers
> or auctions to make sure tokens are minted and sold at the right market
> price – Balancer includes those guarantees for free.  _

 **3\. Liquidity Provider. __** Finally, our Smart Treasury also acts as a
liquidity provider. Because the assets in our Balancer pool are also available
through its decentralized exchange, it means buyers and sellers of TKN have
guaranteed liquidity because they can always trade against the protocol itself
– and token holders have certainty about the economic value of these
transactions. Balancer allows us to customize various economic parameters of
the pool, tweaking the amount of liquidity it provides. For example:

  1.  ** _Pool Assets._** __ Balancer lets you hold up to 8 assets in the pool. In our example, we just have TKN and ETH. But if your network supports multiple payment tokens (e.g. ETH plus a variety of stablecoins), you can add or remove liquidity of TKN with other tokens simply by changing the index index. For example, you could make the pool 80% TKN, 10% ETH, and 10% Dai, and deposit either form of income into the pool. This also means you can make TKN liquid against more than one pair. 

  1.  ** _Pool Index._** _Balancer’s key innovation is its ability to maintain a set index. In our examples, this is what allows us to create a pool that’s 80-90% TKN and 10-20% currency tokens. But you can easily change the proportion to any weight. What this will affect is the overall liquidity of TKN in the pool. Generally, a higher proportion of TKN will increase its slippage, which makes trading against the pool more expensive by increasing the sensitivity of the price of TKN to changes in its supply and demand.  _

  2.  ** _Exchange Fees._** We can set our pool to charge trading fees of up to 10%, to the benefit of the treasury. This allows us to program the premium to market at which tokens are bought or sold. Changing the trading fees makes the Treasury Pool more or less competitive in the market. If you want to discourage buyers in order to protect the network’s TKN balance, you go for a higher fee.

These parameters can be set and fixed forever, programmed via smart contracts,
or updated via a DAO vote depending on each network’s requirements. In
essence, you can program how much liquidity the network provides to the
market. The more liquidity you want to create, the cheaper you’ll want to make
trading against the pool – such as by increasing the proportion of currency
tokens to reduce slippage, and by lowering trading fees. If you want the
network to be the liquidity provider of _last_ resort – the last place people
go to buy and sell TKN – then you increase trading fees and slippage.

The ability to change these settings via a DAO allows a network to affect the
economics of its token in response to market conditions simply by voting on
changes to these Balancer settings. For example, in a bull market, it might
make sense to increase the balance of TKN reserves in the pool along with the
trading fees in order to accumulate more TKN for the treasury. In a bear
market, TKN liquidity might be more important for network health – then,
lowering the cost of exchange would be more useful. This is not too different
from what central banks do to manage economic cycles.

>  ** _Bonus:_** _Similar to the automatic buyback and capitalization
> functions, our Smart Treasury can also be very useful in liquidating stakes
> or collateral in the network. Here again, protocols like MakerDAO rely on
> keeper bots and incentives to manage liquidations, but whereas using a
> Balancer pool provides the equivalent functionality for free.  _

All in, this is where the “make” in buyback-and-make comes from. Instead of
wasting tokens by burning, now we have something very interesting happening.
On one side, TKN is being withdrawn from the Smart Treasury by the Protocol as
incentive tokens are issued. On the other side, any excess income landing in
the pool as network usage increases is automatically used to automatically
buy-back TKN and refill the pool. Instead of burning bought-back tokens, they
become available for re-issuance following the same incentive model. Buyback-
and-make is not destructive to the market cap the way burning can so easily
be. And as a bonus, the many features Balancer provides drastically simplifies
code, protocol and mechanism design.

But my favorite feature of this model is that it allows us to create
**permanent incentive** **models** with continuous issuance while also keeping
a maximum supply of tokens. During the bootstrapping phase of our network,
there might be more TKN leaving the pool than entering from buybacks. But as
the network matures, a balance is found between inflows and outflows of TKN.
By recycling bought-back tokens into constant rewards and liquidity, we ensure
there is always an incentive to continuously capitalize the system. This is
great because it allows the network to leverage the benefits of issuance
_forever_ , while keeping the economic benefits of buybacks _and_ the
certainty of a known maximum token supply.

Tags [joel](/blog/tag/joel)

[<- Ten Theses on Decentralized Network Governance](/blog/2020/9/30/ten-
theses-on-decentralized-network-governance)[Zcash Thesis
->](/blog/2020/9/15/zcash-thesis)

[ ](https://twitter.com/placeholdervc)

## Subscribe

Sign up with your email address to receive news and updates.

First Name

Last Name

Email Address

Sign Up

We respect your privacy.

Thank you!

