[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![Stories from the Future of
Work](/static/2d5c733337c9fd2aa45ff5c906cb400a/2a43b/Work-Is-Not-What-It-Used-
To-Be.jpg)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Holons](/blog/category/holons/)

[Barcelona](/blog/category/barcelona/)

## Stories from the Future of Work

By [Joshua Long](/blog/author/joshua-long/) & [Lorenzo
Patuzzo](/blog/author/lorenzo-patuzzo/)

·

July 03, 2019

On June 20th, the AKASHA Hub Barcelona hosted
[Ouishare](https://twitter.com/Ouishare) and
[Enspiral](https://twitter.com/enspiral) for an evening book-launch event.
Practitioners from both the aforementioned networks, spanning from New Zealand
to Europe, came to share their stories and knowledge from the front lines of
working together in their collaborative networks. Attendees heard about the
challenges and potential of building entrepreneurial collectives, as well as
the legal and institutional structures needed to support these networked ways
of working.

[ ![Better Work
Together](/static/827a18c00269c839a1433ee6bc515df8/1c72d/Better-Work-
Together.jpg) ](/static/827a18c00269c839a1433ee6bc515df8/d0328/Better-Work-
Together.jpg) _Better Work Together took place from 19h-22h on June 20th in
the AKASHA Barcelona Hub._

Attendees were treated to three presentations:

Building a radically good livelihood through collective entrepreneurship -
[Susan Basterfield](https://twitter.com/opentogrow)

Work is not what it used to be! The legal and institutional structures we need
to protect and empower the freelance and platform economy - [Albert
Cañigueral](https://twitter.com/albertcanig)

How to publish a book as a collective: the story behind Better Work Together -
[Anthony Cabraal](https://twitter.com/Whiskey_Fix)

These presentations covered the length and breadth of the future landscape of
work: what this means for individuals, collectives, and organizations, as well
as posing some interesting questions and insights, such as:

  * Communities of independent workers - an oxymoron? - Albert Cañigueral
  * The future of work: communities of independent workers... It's hard to do it alone. Not so different from guilds of the medieval times. - Albert Cañigueral
  * The map we're using for the world of work is out of date - Albert Cañigueral
  * Do you believe everyone has the potential to keep developing as a human being until they die? - Susan Basterfield

[ ![A Radically Good
Livelihood](/static/e3c0ed656e7c442c4e480291acc390e6/1c72d/A-Radically-Good-
Livelihood.jpg) ](/static/e3c0ed656e7c442c4e480291acc390e6/e1596/A-Radically-
Good-Livelihood.jpg) _Caption: Susan Basterfield talking about "A radically
good livelihood."_

Susan shared a really personal story of how she went from working in the
corporate world, where she felt that things were somehow "wrong," to her new
way of working. Albert gave a great industry overview around Workertech and
Digital Labour, and [a recently-published
report](https://www.thersa.org/discover/publications-and-articles/rsa-
blogs/2019/06/tech-platform-workers) which looks at how digital platforms are
shaping the labour market and how solutions are emerging to meet the needs of
workers in the gig economy.

[ ![FoW](/static/e97920095cc08f5b082ed2a9b24ea5e9/1c72d/FoW.jpg)
](/static/e97920095cc08f5b082ed2a9b24ea5e9/72e01/FoW.jpg) _A slide from
Anthony Cabraal 's presentation._

Anthony talked about the challenges of publishing a book as a collective, and
questions such as how to write something coherent while enabling everyone to
bring their own voice and authenticity. He also shared an insight into the
book's revenue model, which is a capped-return funding model, which means that
if it is successful, the authors and producers will get some pay back up to a
certain cap, with Enspiral Foundation, the community that wrote it, ultimately
benefitting from the long-term revenue.

At AKASHA, we believe that humans are not problems waiting to be solved, but
potential waiting to unfold, and changing the way in which we approach work is
a big piece of the puzzle when it comes to amplifying and unleashing the
untapped potential of human beings.

We have moved through many different epochs of work as a species: from the
ancient Greeks who saw work as a curse; to the Protestant Reformation, which
normalized physical labor for all of society; to the proliferation and
secularization of the Protestant Ethic; and to the advent of the information
age, which fundamentally changed the onus of production, shifting it from
physical to knowledge-based tools. Big changes in working environments,
capabilities, and attitudes require similar shifts in how the individual and
the organization approaches work itself. Seeing people tackling these big
questions head on brings up interesting new questions and answers about the
_Future of Work._

Interested in coming to some of our future Barcelona Hub events? We post
information about upcoming events on [our Twitter,
@AKASHAworldBCN](https://twitter.com/AKASHAworldBCN), as well as putting them
up on the events part of [our AKASHA Hub Barcelona Meetup.com
page](https://www.meetup.com/Akasha-Hub-Barcelona/events/)!

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Holons](/blog/category/holons/)

[Barcelona](/blog/category/barcelona/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2019/07/03/Stories-
from-the-Future-of-Work)

