[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/9aae9765871e&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderUser&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Borderless
Capital](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/2*8KIOXE8g8bE5g2A_h3sWaA.jpeg)](/@borderlesscapital?source=post_page
-----9aae9765871e--------------------------------)

[Borderless Capital](/@borderlesscapital?source=post_page-----
9aae9765871e--------------------------------)

Follow

Sep 6, 2019

·

3 min read

#  **Supporting Adoption by Improving the Algo Economic Equilibrium**

 **Economic Improvement Proposal (EIP-090319AC)**

The Algorand mainnet launched about two and a half months ago. Since then, the
network has shown that scalability, security and decentralization can all be
achieved together in a blockchain. Sending an Algo from _Alice_ to _Bob_ is
fast (about 4.5 seconds), secure (meaning it is not reversible and no forks
are possible) and decentralized, with validation occurring by random sortition
of all Algo holders.

We are seeing early signs of adoption: The International Swaps and Derivatives
Association (ISDA) is
[working](https://www.algorand.com/resources/blog/algorand-isda-member) with
Algorand to define a Blockchain standard for derivatives financial
instruments; Tether, the largest USD stablecoin by volume and market
capitalization looking to [launch its product](https://tether.to/tether-
coming-to-algorand/) on Algorand; IDEX the leading and most used Decentralized
Exchange Platform decided to [build the next
version](https://blog.idex.io/all-posts/idex-plans-for-next-generation-
decentralized-exchange-on-algorand) of its application on Algorand to increase
scalability and speed; and these are just a few examples of how this network
will be used. We are true believers that this will only accelerate and
innovation will continue to grow as we have seen these leaders become the
first movers.

Breadth and depth of adoption for any innovative technology takes time. Often,
market understanding of the long term potential underestimates the time needed
to realize that potential. Crypto and blockchain are no exception to this
rule.

Algo is the native digital currency of Algorand and it is part of its core
technology. Any Algo holder currently can participate in the public,
permissionless, pure proof-of-stake Algorand consensus mechanism. It is
therefore crucial to develop a well-functioning market for the Algo in order
to support adoption of the Algorand chain. This means not only by bringing use
cases to the ecosystem, but also finding broad economic equilibrium.

We have been watching the Algo market and believe that current daily growth in
tokens supply is not aligned with the demand at present adoption levels. A
significant amount of tokens are being issued every day to reward participants
who support both the maintenance of the infrastructure and the performance of
the network — specifically to the relay node runners.

While rewarding the ongoing support of the network is essential, an excessive
daily supply increase can create a significant selling pressure which
adversely affects the Algo economic equilibrium.

Therefore, we as Algo Capital in collaboration with and support from many
other relay node runners, have decided to initiate a first Economic
Improvement Proposal to:

  * Provide ample time for the technology to reach full adoption potential.
  * Support the Algorand network in the long term and create a stronger community.
  * Help the Algo economy to find equilibrium with the right supply/demand dynamics.

The Economic Improvement Proposal (EIP-090319AC) which you can download
[here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1_Tg0DLW2dYh3SHmKMQI4Xbz1HVNoUS2T/view),
proposes to extend the current 2 year linear daily reward for relay node
runners to a 5 year linear daily reward. We socialized this EIP with the
community of relay node runners and we are thankful that many members of the
community have become supporters of this EIP. Here is a list of relay node
runners who have already expressed their support (in alphabetical order):

  * Algo Capital Node I
  * Algo Investor
  * Algorand DG Group I
  * Applied Crypto
  * Arrington XRP Capital
  * AssetBlock
  * BB Land Holdings
  * Blockdaemon
  * Brainchild
  * Cartan
  * Cognitive Blockchain
  * Coinfabrik / Randlabs
  * Collaborative Fund
  * Eterna Capital
  * Flipside Crypto
  * First Rice Algo Blocker
  * IMO Ventures
  * MEWN
  * Multicoin Capital
  * Nirvana Capital
  * Pillar VC
  * PureStake
  * QCP Capital
  * Slow Ventures
  * Union Square Ventures
  * 11–11 Ventures
  * Wing VC

With this support from what we believe is a majority of the relay nodes, we
are submitting this EIP to the Algorand Foundation economic committee for
their consideration.

We hope that this EIP can be properly approved through an on-chain voting
process that makes the results transparent and visible for the entire Algorand
community. We will defer to the Algorand Foundation on the voting process and
implementation mechanics.

We are excited to be part of this effort and keep working to build a stronger,
enduring and positive Algorand community for everyone.

[ **David Garcia**](https://twitter.com/gdavideh) **and**[ **Arul
Murugan**](https://twitter.com/arul_1111i) **  
Founders and Managing Partners of Algo Capital**

 _Disclaimer: Algo Capital is not related to or affiliated with Algorand Inc,
Algorand LLC, Algorand Foundation, or any of their subsidiaries. The views,
opinions, and communications of Algo Capital are generated independently by
the General Partners of Algo Capital, and are not endorsed or approved in any
way by Algorand Inc, Algorand LLC, Algorand Foundation, or any of their
subsidiaries or affiliates._

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Borderless Capital](/@borderlesscapital?source=post_page-----
9aae9765871e--------------------------------)

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F1c33ae759495&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40borderlesscapital%2Fsupporting-
adoption-by-improving-the-algo-economic-
equilibrium-9aae9765871e&newsletterV3=554e3c0c6258&newsletterV3Id=1c33ae759495&user=Borderless+Capital&userId=554e3c0c6258&source=-----9aae9765871e
---------------------subscribe_user-----------)

Borderless Capital is a financial institution focused exclusively on powering
Algorand’s borderless economy.

Love podcasts or audiobooks? Learn on the go with our new app.

[Try
Knowable](https://knowable.fyi/?utm_source=medium&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=medium-
post-footer&source=post_page-----9aae9765871e--------------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----9aae9765871e--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
9aae9765871e--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
9aae9765871e--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
9aae9765871e--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
9aae9765871e--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----9aae9765871e--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----9aae9765871e--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40borderlesscapital%2Fsupporting-
adoption-by-improving-the-algo-economic-
equilibrium-9aae9765871e&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Borderless
Capital](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/2*8KIOXE8g8bE5g2A_h3sWaA.jpeg)](/@borderlesscapital)

[

## Borderless Capital

](/@borderlesscapital)

102 Followers

Borderless Capital is a financial institution focused exclusively on powering
Algorand’s borderless economy.

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F1c33ae759495&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40borderlesscapital%2Fsupporting-
adoption-by-improving-the-algo-economic-
equilibrium-9aae9765871e&newsletterV3=554e3c0c6258&newsletterV3Id=1c33ae759495&user=Borderless+Capital&userId=554e3c0c6258&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Parea
Capital](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*qJ7Qlgn_INexgUXdANuTyQ.png)](/@pareacapital?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------ba4be2dc_5702_44d1_b17d_040d94c9495e-------)

[Parea Capital

](/@pareacapital?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
ba4be2dc_5702_44d1_b17d_040d94c9495e-------)

## Parea Profiles: Pact

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*bEYJWy68_7-4cmkC5ArWYQ.png)](/@pareacapital/parea-
profiles-pact-9cd586f2a29d?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------ba4be2dc_5702_44d1_b17d_040d94c9495e-------)

[[![Stable Unit
DAO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Bm1DEK7XfGQYCt0xZQkLOQ.png)](/@stableunitdao?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------ba4be2dc_5702_44d1_b17d_040d94c9495e-------)

[Stable Unit DAO

](/@stableunitdao?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
ba4be2dc_5702_44d1_b17d_040d94c9495e-------)

in

[StableUnit

](https://medium.com/stableunit?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------ba4be2dc_5702_44d1_b17d_040d94c9495e-------)

## SuDAO devlog 2

](/stableunit/sudao-devblog-update-2-411d5c5c5885?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------ba4be2dc_5702_44d1_b17d_040d94c9495e-------)

[[![Rishabh
Nayyar](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*cfB4oz9uB2C1zSLtHfBVPA.png)](/@rishabhnayyar?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------ba4be2dc_5702_44d1_b17d_040d94c9495e-------)

[Rishabh Nayyar

](/@rishabhnayyar?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
ba4be2dc_5702_44d1_b17d_040d94c9495e-------)

## Crypto Governance — Avoiding a plutocratic nightmare?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*DciVVN5AbYHHCxJzNDiH0A.png)](/@rishabhnayyar/crypto-
governance-avoiding-a-plutocratic-
nightmare-c1b31a666014?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
ba4be2dc_5702_44d1_b17d_040d94c9495e-------)

[[![Clintex CTi](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*gS6LTOjyB-qms-wZk-
eLKw.jpeg)](/@clintexcti?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------ba4be2dc_5702_44d1_b17d_040d94c9495e-------)

[Clintex CTi

](/@clintexcti?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
ba4be2dc_5702_44d1_b17d_040d94c9495e-------)

## OpTex Dev Update — Feb 2022

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Dr7_0Y_lWXemtkOzbuHNqw.png)](/@clintexcti/optex-
dev-update-feb-2022-d33c08470652?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------ba4be2dc_5702_44d1_b17d_040d94c9495e-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

