![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/supporting-a-decentralized-uncensored-internet-for-every-person-on-the-planet/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/supporting-a-decentralized-uncensored-internet-for-every-person-on-the-planet/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/supporting-a-decentralized-uncensored-internet-for-every-person-on-the-planet/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/supporting-a-decentralized-uncensored-internet-for-every-person-on-the-planet/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/supporting-a-decentralized-uncensored-internet-for-every-person-on-the-planet/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/supporting-a-decentralized-uncensored-internet-for-every-person-on-the-planet/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Supporting a decentralized, uncensored Internet for every person on the
planet](/static/66e26150df976ea0eba8e01ae8ef6522/orchid-logo-text.jpg)

# Supporting a decentralized, uncensored Internet for every person on the
planet

Nov 1, 2017  
  

What makes a better Internet possible? At [Orchid
Labs](http://www.orchidprotocol.com/), our goal is to ensure that every person
on Earth can have access to an open, decentralized, and uncensored Internet.
We believe a better Internet is one that isn’t controlled by the few, but open
to all.

Currently, Internet access for the majority of the people on Earth is censored
and monitored. Because of this, many Internet users are blocked from freely
communicating, collaborating, and accessing information. The current
centralized system, which limits our ability to communicate and learn — while
also harvesting and selling our personal data — is far from the full potential
of what the internet could be and strays from the original intention of its
creators.

That’s why we’ve launched the Orchid Protocol, an open-source overlay network
that uses excess bandwidth on top of the existing Internet to ensure that
people — no matter where they live on our planet — can have unrestricted
access to information and collaboration. Orchid’s protocol combines surplus
bandwidth, state-of-the-art encryption, and a decentralized infrastructure
enabling any Internet user to participate and exchange bandwidth for payment
in peer-to-peer transactions using Orchid tokens on the Ethereum blockchain.

Our team consists of engineers, cryptocurrency experts, technologists, and
partners dedicated to creating an Internet free of surveillance and
censorship. This idea isn’t new; there are people across the globe dedicated
to this cause. We believe the Orchid Protocol will help the world finally
create this reality.

We started discussing ways to create an internet free of surveillance and
censorship that everyone in the world could access. With a passion for where
we wanted to go and a firm idea of how to get there, we knew we needed the
technological expertise and funding to make this happen.

Fortunately, we’ve met many technologists and partners who are also passionate
about this cause, and who believe in Orchid’s ability to transform the way
that users can utilize and access the Internet.

Olaf Carlson-Wee from [Polychain Capital](http://polychain.capital/) is an
investor who focuses on emerging Internet-based technologies. “We’ve invested
in a number of projects that I would say focus on preserving privacy on the
Internet and enabling people to use the Internet in a more free and open way,”
he said. “I’d say that cryptocurrency largely falls into this category as
well. We invested in Orchid because we think it’s the most sophisticated
project we’ve seen to date that’s trying to solve problems within this space.”

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

Steve Bell had worked with open-source advocate and technologist Brian J. Fox
in more than one venture. Steve and Brian had been talking years earlier about
the different ways in which restrictive firewalls could be bypassed, enabling
freedom of speech on the Internet. When the three of us met to discuss the
Orchid mission, it became clear that we had the makings of the core team well
underway. Brian had known the software engineer and developer of Cydia, Jay
Freeman, for years, and Jay helped us take our project from concept to
development stage.

For an expert in creating the technology for an alternative funding model, we
turned to Gustav Simonsson, an engineer and developer who helped launch
Ethereum. Together, this team brings an immense amount of passion, experience,
and expertise that can make the goal of an uncensored, surveillance-free
Internet a reality. We believe that together, we’ve created a protocol that
will transform the current power structure of the Internet and benefit every
Internet user in the world.

One of our first investors, W. Bradford Stephens of [Blockchain
Capital](http://blockchain.capital/), has known and worked with me for years.
“We support blockchain enabled technologies and when you have an idea that can
impact and empower billions of people by creating a more open and inclusive
Internet — with the right technology and team — we realized the benefit could
affect everyone, no matter where you are on the planet.”

[DFJ Venture Capital](https://dfj.com/), another of our partners, believes,
“Mission- and purpose-driven businesses last longer. Like open-source
communities working on a common goal. These galvanizing rods let people do
amazing work. You want your employees and customers to be rooting for you. You
can make money anywhere, whereas changing the world, it transcends your
existence, and money never does that.”

The Internet is the most powerful tool for gathering information and
collaborating that’s ever existed. At Orchid Labs, we believe in order for its
fullest potential to be reached, this tool needs to be available for everyone,
free of censorship and surveillance, and it needs to protect each user’s
personal data.

Because of the passion and expertise of our team, and investors who believe in
this mission and our ability to actuate it, we have the technology, drive, and
resources to make this dream a reality. If you believe in these same ideals,
and an approach that combines open-source technology backed by cryptocurrency,
we hope that you’ll join us in our mission to realize a better Internet.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Blockchain](/tag/blockchain/)
  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [Censorship](/tag/censorship/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Supporting%20a%20decentralized%2C%20uncensored%20Internet%20for%20every%20person%20on%20the%20planet%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fsupporting-
a-decentralized-uncensored-internet-for-every-person-on-the-planet%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fsupporting-
a-decentralized-uncensored-internet-for-every-person-on-the-planet%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fsupporting-
a-decentralized-uncensored-internet-for-every-person-on-the-planet%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/marvin-tong-on-battling-the-data-empire-with-privacy-and-decentralization/)

#### Marvin Tong on Battling the “Data Empire” with Privacy and
Decentralization

](/marvin-tong-on-battling-the-data-empire-with-privacy-and-decentralization/)

Mar 22, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-kucoin/)

[

#### OXT is listed on KuCoin

](/oxt-is-listed-on-kucoin/)

Sep 13, 2021

](/author-glenn-greenwald-on-the-critical-importance-of-free-speech/)

[

#### Author Glenn Greenwald on the Critical Importance of Free Speech

](/author-glenn-greenwald-on-the-critical-importance-of-free-speech/)

Dec 6, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

