[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) Â·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![Team AKASHA: Ã‚nderson
Quadros](/static/96e2eba361a84b5a6d45be6bc349e13c/2a43b/an_odyssey_of_discovery_bucharest.jpg)

[Team](/blog/category/team/)

## Team AKASHA: Ã‚nderson Quadros

By [Ã‚nderson Q.](/blog/author/anderson-q/)

Â·

July 04, 2019

I first heard about AKASHA not long after the founding team [unveiled the
project](https://akasha.org/blog/2016/05/03/unveiling-akasha/) on World Press
Freedom Day 2016 - May 3rd, a date that today we celebrate as "AKASHA Day."

Learning that one of Ethereum's co-founders, [Mihai
Alisie](https://twitter.com/mihaialisie), mastermind behind AKASHA, was eager
to step into the sensitive and controversial arena of social media platforms
and connect the Ethereum blockchain with the IPFS network (both such promising
and exciting names) in order to build a censorship-resistant publishing
platform, was immediately exciting.

Fast-forward one and a half years to Thailand. I had just finished a
consulting contract and had to start thinking about my next gig. I had been
teaching, advising, and working as a consultant for almost 20 years, orbiting
around product, project, and process management in companies from different
countries, domains, and sizes, from early-stage startups to big, global corps.

[ ![remote office
thailand](/static/43453248586c02cb86f741cf673bf66c/1c72d/remote_office_thailand.jpg)
](/static/43453248586c02cb86f741cf673bf66c/d9c39/remote_office_thailand.jpg)
_Remote office, Phuket Town, 2018._

At that moment, I had something different in mind though. Perhaps motivated by
Thailand's stunning landscapes, rather than looking for something that would
only be just another gig, I decided I would work with an organization
effectively engaged in changing the world.

I had been collaborating with multiple social, cultural, and open-source
projects and organizations already for many years, but never as a full-time
collaborator - and that idea seemed like the perfect next step at that moment.
So I made a small list with the name of a few particular organizations -
AKASHA among them - and started getting in touch with them.

Jump forward a few weeks to the countryside of Brazil. From a barn with poor
Internet connection, I found myself attending to a call with two exhilarating
Romanian guys: Mihai and AKASHA's technical lead, [Marius
Darila](https://twitter.com/MariusDarila). I was honoured to meet one of
Ethereum's founders and the three of us had a nice and promising chat.

Just a few emails and calls later, they surprised me by inviting me to spend a
few days in Bucharest with the entire AKASHA team, participating in an
internal event they called "An Odyssey of Discovery," alongside other invitees
- scientists, researchers, engineers, and entrepreneurs.

I cannot properly describe how awesome those days were and how excited I was
to meet all those super smart and cool people, to learn a little bit more in
depth about what the AKASHA team was up to, their vision and crazy ideas, and
in particular about their clear mission to make an impact in the world.

Things went so well that I ended up staying for a couple of months in Romania
rather than only a few days, and - fucking yeah! - I landed that super cool
job I dreamed about a few months before in Thailand.

[ ![an odyssey of discovery
bucharest](/static/96e2eba361a84b5a6d45be6bc349e13c/1c72d/an_odyssey_of_discovery_bucharest.jpg)
](/static/96e2eba361a84b5a6d45be6bc349e13c/895e1/an_odyssey_of_discovery_bucharest.jpg)
_An Odyssey of Discovery, Bucharest, 2018._

Moving to the present day. About one year after that first call with those two
exhilarating Romanian guys, I have wandered through a few different countries
meeting people from our community, witnessed and contributed to the genesis of
the first AKASHA hubs in [Barcelona](https://twitter.com/AKASHAworldBCN) and
[Dublin](https://twitter.com/AKASHAworldDUB), and have been participating in
the
[metamorphosis](https://akasha.org/blog/2019/01/15/akasha-2019-metamorphosis-
part1/) of the AKASHA Foundation, proudly helping to build the decentralized
Internet and a better home of mind.

At AKASHA, I look after processes and the day-to-day operation as part of the
People & Ops, Community, and Brand & Identity teams - and I contribute to the
development of the AKASHA Hubs and to the design of
[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/).

I'm from Brazil and I deeply believe in global citizenship, open access to
information, and free-culture. I love comics, fiction books, TV shows, and
movies (the usual stuff); and in my free time, you'll find me either
contributing to cultural projects, coaching skydiving, or teaching coral
gardening.

If youâ€™re interested in joining us, you can [find our job listings
here](https://akasha.org/careers/). You can also join the conversation on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/AKASHAworld),
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/),
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg), and
[Discord](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ), and [subscribe to our
newsletter](https://akasha.org/contact/#newsletter) to make sure that youâ€™re
always kept up-to-date with what we are up to! ðŸ¤—

[Team](/blog/category/team/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 â€” Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 â€” Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adoptâ€¦

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

MarÃ­a SanmartÃ­n and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX andâ€¦

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 â€” Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 â€” Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralizedâ€¦

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) Â·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2019/07/04/team-
anderson-quadros)

