[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) Â·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![Team AKASHA: Joshua
Long](/static/afedd266aea306e901ca0dd6f7f043fc/2a43b/header.jpg)

[Team](/blog/category/team/)

## Team AKASHA: Joshua Long

By [Joshua Long](/blog/author/joshua-long/)

Â·

April 20, 2020

When I applied to study Economics at university back in 2009, I had no real
idea of where that was going to take me. Aside from having done the standard
kid stuff of wanting to be a _scientist_ or an _astronaut,_ I had never really
given any deep thought to the trajectory that I was intending to set myself on
after collecting my degree. Unfortunately the course itself didn't really
offer much insight into a future direction, or much deep insight into anything
for that matter; the theory that gets taught throughout the first two years of
an Econ. degree is based on intense oversimplifications, baseless assumptions,
and models of the world that just do not hold up to the most tepid testing of
their conclusions.

I realized this pretty early on; clocking in the hours, but feeling
academically unsatisfied, I decided to set myself extra reading, blazing
through Ricardo, Keynes, Marx, Malthus, Hayek, Smith, Friedman, searching for
and finding nuggets of wisdom great and small throughout the process. Books
like _Progress and Poverty_ by Henry George, and _The Theory of the Leisure
Class_ by Thornstein Veblen, put forward theories about aspects of modern
life, culture, and economics that provided exciting lenses through which to
view society.

> "One believes things because one has been conditioned to believe them." \--
> Aldous Huxley

Much like the glasses in John Carpenter's _They Live_ these new narratives
were hard to shake off, and when during my studying of monetary systems I came
across this new, digital currency called _Bitcoin;_ I watched on with keen
interest.

[ ![picture one](/static/4be31fc745f3ef0777271e1c3e5a5f30/1c72d/picture-
one.jpg) ](/static/4be31fc745f3ef0777271e1c3e5a5f30/0f98f/picture-one.jpg)

Post university I moved on to working in marketing and communications for
charities, writing press releases, working up promotion around events,
crafting blog posts, revamping websites, producing videos, and occasionally
acting as in-house photographer. Through this broad base of activities I was
exposed quite heavily to the backends and analytics attachments of the social
networks that are commonly used by organizations to send and receive messages.

I'm reminded here of the later-in-life ideas of the great Timothy Leary, who
claimed that the Internet and cyberdelic culture had the opportunity to
liberate humanity from authority, comparing the PC to a tool for consciousness
expansion, much like the hippies of the 1960s (himself included) described
psychedelic drugs and alternate lifestyles. The cyberdelic community envisaged
a techno-utopia; instead we have created systems which potentiate some of the
worst parts of us whilst solidifying of the position of large data-based,
rent-seeking companies.

As I moved further into my career, I moved out of charities and into the for-
profit sector, eventually ending up working in marketing for events. This
change in my job meant that I went deeper into the dark arts of marketing,
using PPC tools, Facebook Ads, paid media buys, Google Analytics etc. and the
whole exercise of purchasing people's attention from these big companies
didn't sit right with me. Taking the example of Facebook, people come there to
see friends' pictures, organize events, and chat; it is inherently a perverse
and unsettling that this kind of thing has to have the sale of people as
products in order to keep operating.

I was convinced then that the sphere of human social activity had been
commodified, another lens added to the collection.

[ ![picture two](/static/b1fda4da626c95b9d3b2171c3de04c3a/fcda8/picture-
two.png) ](/static/b1fda4da626c95b9d3b2171c3de04c3a/d5f92/picture-two.png)

One day when looking into alternative social networks, I stumbled across [the
AKASHA website.](https://akasha.org/) What's this? _A non-profit born at the
intersection of blockchain and collective intelligence._ Hmmmmm. What have
they been up to? Developing a network that is censorship-resistant and exists
for people, not to use people.

I swiftly went to [the Careers page](https://akasha.org/careers/) and happened
upon a posting looking for someone to work with the AKASHA community, nested
under a warm, friendly photo of the team discussing ideas over coffee in the
Swiss Alps. I applied then and there. Over the next few months I met Anderson
via Zoom call, completed a small essay assignment, met Philip in person in
London, and then was finally offered the position by Mihai. I accepted, and
joined the team properly at the end of March 2019.

[ ![picture three](/static/71677b2ea840d7afab2745af4f2e39c4/1c72d/picture-
three.jpg) ](/static/71677b2ea840d7afab2745af4f2e39c4/ac99c/picture-three.jpg)

I've now passed a year of being in the AKASHA Team and experienced an
alignment of professional life and personal philosophy that brings a great
sense of peace and purpose. My _They Live_ glasses have evolved to become not
only a lens through which I am able to view the world, but a vision of what
the future should be and a map of how I can help us get there.

If youâ€™re interested in joining us, you can [find our job listings
here](https://akasha.org/careers/). You can also join the conversation on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg),
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/),
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg), and
[Discord](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ), and [subscribe to our
newsletter](https://akasha.org/contact/#newsletter) to make sure that youâ€™re
always kept up-to-date with what we are up to! ðŸ¤—

[Team](/blog/category/team/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 â€” Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 â€” Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adoptâ€¦

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

MarÃ­a SanmartÃ­n and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX andâ€¦

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 â€” Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 â€” Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralizedâ€¦

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) Â·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2020/04/20/team-
josh-long)

