[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Technology as a political act aka Web3

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Technology as a political act aka Web3

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

March 2020

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

In the process of exploring Web3, I have found myself looking at social change
rather than technology change. Bitcoin is political. Decentralised networks
are political. To create peer-to-peer, private, and censorship-resistant
technology to upend existing power structures is a political act. The dominant
cultural driver of technological development since the Global Financial Crisis
in 2008 has been distrust in the financial system and previously trusted
authorities:

To be more specific

_" Trust is low in many arenas, and often has been for years. Low levels of
trust seem to be a chronic issue, rather than a very new acute one._" Gideon
Skinner, Researcher Director, Ipsos Mori

**In the past, it was like this**

Information used to flow from central authorities out to the public. The
channels have got faster from the telegraph to the radio, to the telephone,
television, to the satellite. Without regurgitating Timothy Wu, we know all of
these mediums started relatively open and decentralised, e.g. it was easy for
anyone to be a producer. Over time the channels became less open and more
centralised, e.g. you needed a license to be a producer. As these channels
matured, users understood that creators required licenses and credentials to
use the networks. People implicitly trusted what people said on the radio or
the television. Brands like the BBC and The New York Times built reputations
as trusted sources of information. The Internet and social media broke the
information gatekeepers and has made everyone a producer.

**Then two things happened**

**1/ Breakdown in trust in traditional authorities -** It's no surprise to
anyone reading that trust in previous information institutions is at an all-
time low. Traditional media, politicians, judges, bankers, and technology
companies are all less trusted than ever. The same is true of the Government
regardless of your politics. Information no longer flows hierarchically down;
it flows from person to person on social media. But we don't currently have
the trust technologies to manage these new information flows. Disinformation
campaigns, fake news, and scams are rife as bad actors game the networks.

**_= low levels of trust in institutions_**

**2/ Bitcoin and peer to peer tech** - Bitcoin is a direct response to this
decline in trust, specifically the banks following the 2008 financial crisis.
Off the back of Bitcoin, a whole new market has emerged focused on creating
technology that attempts to securely remove trusted authorities from a range
of networks and systems. This new field brought together libertarians and
young engineers with a mindest to create 'trustless' systems. Interest in
peer-to-peer technologies, distributed systems and cryptography was
supercharged by a seemingly ever-increasing price of Bitcoin and Ether.
Despite the fall in price, a ton of talent, money and resources has gone into
building secure p2p technologies.

**_= technology to enable peer-to-peer trust_**

**So the future might be like this**

It's harder than ever to find unbiased information online with algorithmic
filter bubbles combined with the challenge of moderating global communication
platforms is not making it any easier. And that's just text. Deepfakes for
video and audio will make it even harder to know what is real online. As we
live more of our lives digitally, the inability to trust institutions and
other people is already having profound consequences for our democracy.

Peer-to-peer tools will not solve the problem. They are a set of tools to
address the lack of trust online. We will also need education and laws. But
that will take time. In the meantime, the market is hard at work. Self-
sovereign identity, blockchains, peer-to-peer file storage and databases, and
zero-knowledge tools are just a few of the many trust tools in development.

Web3 is a social movement. As computing and software become cheaper, faster
and easier, activism and political statements can be expressed in code. A lot
of people don't trust authorities, so instead of demonstrating they are
creating technology. Technology, in this case, is a political act.

--

I have had a lot of conversations which has helped crystalise my thinking on
this. So I want to thank everyone at Outlier Ventures, in particular, Jamie
Burke. As well as Shi Khai and Sameer Ahmed.

Posted by Lawrence Lundy - March 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

March 2020

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

