###### [![Samourai
Wallet](https://64.media.tumblr.com/avatar_36fa1c18c89f_64.pnj) Samourai
Wallet](/)

* * *

* * *

* * *

x

  * [Archive](/archive)
  * [RSS](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/rss)
  * [Simplify](http://simplifytheme.tumblr.com) version 1.22. Theme Designed & Developed by [](http://amitjakhu.com)Amit Jakhu. Powered by [Tumblr](http://tumblr.com).

[Jan 07  
2019](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/181821635197/temporarily-disabling-
stealth-mode-remote-sms)

### [Temporarily disabling Stealth Mode, Remote SMS, and SIM Switch Defense
features due to restrictive Google Play Store
policies.](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/181821635197/temporarily-
disabling-stealth-mode-remote-sms)

It is with great sadness that we are disabling the following features within
Samourai Wallet as of version 0.99.04 - which will be released tomorrow - due
to new extremely restrictive policies Google has decided to introduce in their
effort to become more of a "walled garden" experience: **  
**

  * Stealth Mode
  * SIM Switch Defense
  * Remote SMS Commands

All three of these features have been included in Samourai Wallet since our
first release in 2015 and have helped define our product as a unique offering
instead of the same old lazy copy paste job that is rife in this industry, as
well as provide protection and security to the countless users who rely on
these features. To this day no other wallet has enabled these types of
features, and now it is very likely no other wallet will thanks to the heavy
hand of Google.

We applied for an exemption with Google months ago, which was rejected days
ago, despite our argument that removing such functionality would cause users
who rely on those features to be less secure and more exposed. We also
provided evidence of the SIM Switch Defense feature alerting users countless
times to attempted SIM Swap attacks on their SIM Cards. It made us very proud
that our little feature was protecting users from the horrible OpSec of
network carriers which allow SIM Swap attacks to occur. Google does not care
about any of this however, and Samourai Wallet would have been removed from
the Google Play Store had we not complied with this dictate.

In the coming months we will expand our distribution model to include self
hosted APK downloads and inclusion in the open source F-Droid app store. These
versions will all include the Stealth Mode, Remote SMS, and SIM Switch Defense
features.

In the meantime users should disable Stealth Mode prior to updating to version
0.99.04 or contact us at
[support@samouraiwallet.com](mailto:support@samouraiwallet.com) if you have
already updated and now are having trouble accessing your wallet so our
support agents can assist you.

Again, we are sorry for this inconvenience, but our hands have been tied by
Google. We hope to bring these features back somehow in the future in the
Google Play Store release, and are dedicated to offering the full feature set
experience via alternative distribution methods such as direct download and
F-Droid in the coming months.

  * [samourai](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/tagged/samourai)
  * [samourai wallet](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/tagged/samourai%20wallet)
  * [bitcoin wallet](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/tagged/bitcoin%20wallet)
  * [Bitcoin Security](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/tagged/Bitcoin%20Security)
  * [bitcoin privacy](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/tagged/bitcoin%20privacy)
  * [bitcoin](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/tagged/bitcoin)

  * [January 07, 2019](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/181821635197/temporarily-disabling-stealth-mode-remote-sms)

[Older Post](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/181715312912) [Newer
Post](https://blog.samouraiwallet.com/post/182192289762)
![](https://px.srvcs.tumblr.com/impixu?T=1653240067&J=eyJ0eXBlIjoidXJsIiwidXJsIjoiaHR0cDovL2Jsb2cuc2Ftb3VyYWl3YWxsZXQuY29tL3Bvc3QvMTgxODIxNjM1MTk3L3RlbXBvcmFyaWx5LWRpc2FibGluZy1zdGVhbHRoLW1vZGUtcmVtb3RlLXNtcyIsInJlcXR5cGUiOjAsInJvdXRlIjoiL3Bvc3QvOmlkLzpzdW1tYXJ5Iiwibm9zY3JpcHQiOjF9&U=NFILKOPGDK&K=f55b2916f0d0669650f93044992c6fd25f0e9de3a01c60f8c0b3e9b4b61643f4&R=)![](https://px.srvcs.tumblr.com/impixu?T=1653240067&J=eyJ0eXBlIjoicG9zdCIsInVybCI6Imh0dHA6Ly9ibG9nLnNhbW91cmFpd2FsbGV0LmNvbS9wb3N0LzE4MTgyMTYzNTE5Ny90ZW1wb3JhcmlseS1kaXNhYmxpbmctc3RlYWx0aC1tb2RlLXJlbW90ZS1zbXMiLCJyZXF0eXBlIjowLCJyb3V0ZSI6Ii9wb3N0LzppZC86c3VtbWFyeSIsInBvc3RzIjpbeyJwb3N0aWQiOiIxODE4MjE2MzUxOTciLCJibG9naWQiOjIzNTE1Mjc3Mywic291cmNlIjozM31dLCJub3NjcmlwdCI6MX0=&U=FEPJCBEJGF&K=8002ddfd6700a3d1f98d98d1ce7d8bf756ceeab2c02d749784ff821901917732&R=)

