

Menu

#  [![Placeholder](//images.squarespace-
cdn.com/content/v1/5a479ee3b7411c6102f75729/1547646516693-WBRREM74TRC4IAX5G0PN/Placeholder%2BLogo.png?format=1500w)](/)

Street Address

City, State, Zip

Phone Number

Your Custom Text Here

# [![Placeholder](//images.squarespace-
cdn.com/content/v1/5a479ee3b7411c6102f75729/1547646516693-WBRREM74TRC4IAX5G0PN/Placeholder%2BLogo.png?format=1500w)](/)

# Placeholder Blog

Placeholder Blog

#  [Ten Theses on Decentralized Network Governance](/blog/2020/9/30/ten-
theses-on-decentralized-network-governance)

September 30, 2020 [Mario Laul](/blog?author=5b6b0f5f70a6ad1cba591558)

Based on my research over the past couple of years, I’ve put together a list
of ten theses on decentralized network governance, including base layer public
blockchain networks and applications (smart contracts) running on top of them.
The ten ideas are listed from the more general and theoretical (descriptive)
to the more specific and practical (prescriptive). The first five are revised
summaries of my [previous writing](https://medium.com/@mariolaul/); the latter
five are derived from more recent observations.

I define governance as the process of applying any design feature or control
mechanism that maintains and steers a system.

 **1.**   _Blockchain-related technological and institutional innovation is
part of an ongoing maturation phase of the Information Technology (IT)
Revolution, which includes the emergence of IT-native forms of socio-economic
organization that are digital, global, and increasingly decentralized and
automated._

It is in the latter phases of a technological revolution that its key
technologies begin transforming the institutional structure of society.
Blockchain and related innovations are part of a more general trend towards
digitization, computerization, and automation — a world in which a growing
number of systemically important processes rely on formal rules of protocol,
geared towards more efficient coordination in the context of growing
complexity. Although disruptive on the surface, this trend is part of the
evolution of an earlier form of organizing that sociologists refer to as
[bureaucratic](https://medium.com/@mariolaul/blockchains-are-bureaucracies-
par-excellence-db39cfda7ea9). But instead of human administrators, the mundane
rule-following in administering information and facilitating transactions
connected to that information is increasingly done by distributed networks of
machines, some of which are global in their reach.

 **2.**   _Decentralized networks are fields — social arenas of symbolic and
material production in which interested actors compete and cooperate over
network-specific resources as they provision and consume the products and
services available in the network._

An important precondition for constructing a
[field](https://medium.com/@mariolaul/resource-distribution-and-power-
dynamics-in-decentralized-networks-ab0610bee6e1) — a game worth playing — is
socially distributed information about resources at stake, and at least some
shared understanding of why these resources are valuable. The structure of a
particular field is determined by the distribution of these resources, and by
extension, the relations among the entities that make up the field as a whole.
In decentralized networks, this includes everyone involved in investing,
building, operating, using, or otherwise participating in the network.
Governance is a process embedded in the structure of the network, initially
determined by the entities closest to its launch. Subsequent actions by
network participants either reinforce or challenge the existing structure,
while increasing or decreasing the amount and value of the resources
available. The structural evolution of a network is strongly affected by the
social norms and rules of the network, including those specified in relevant
software protocols. As a result, the power to legitimately (re)define these
norms and rules is one of the key stakes in network politics.

 **3.**   _In addition to conventional market dynamics, an overarching factor
driving the evolution of decentralized networks is the tension between
ideology, reality, and financial incentives._

Despite their many differences of opinion in specific areas, people
participating in blockchain networks tend to share certain ideological or
pragmatic dispositions, expressed in concepts such as decentralization
(resilience against collusion and minimization of single points of control or
failure), self-sovereignty (individual freedom, ownership, and privacy),
permissionless access, censorship-resistance, open source software, and
criticism towards excessive intermediation or rent-seeking. However, what’s
ideologically preferable is not always technically or sociologically
realistic. Blockchain innovators are constantly threading the needle between
the two, trying to avoid [reproducing](https://medium.com/@mariolaul/the-full-
circle-hypothesis-8537604b5a01) problems that their innovations are intended
to solve — a task that is made more arduous by the influence of short-term
financial incentives. The economic success or mass adoption of individual
networks is not necessarily dependent on strict adherence to some narrow set
of principles. But the interplay between ideology, reality, and financial
incentives will remain a key influence on how systems of network governance
are designed and evolve.

 **4.**   _Decentralized network governance consists of four main components:
(1) leadership, vision, and values that attract and guide network
participants; (2) rules inscribed in the relevant software protocols; (3)
rules and regulations external to the relevant software protocols; (4)
community coordination and management._

The initial vision and values behind a particular network are expressed in
founding documents, details of network launch, and the personal views and
preferences of early contributors. Software protocols are used to define how
the network handles the most important information and transactions, which may
include rules on implementing changes to the software itself, known as on-
chain governance. Additional rules may emerge independently of the software,
mainly through organizations that help coordinate the activities of the
broader community, known as off-chain governance, which often resembles the
[governance](https://medium.com/@mariolaul/foss-governance-and-blockchain-
networks-f32dbbc0d5dd) of traditional free and open source software (FOSS)
projects. The most innovative aspects of decentralized network governance are
found in the on-chain component, especially as it relates to on-chain data
analytics, tokenization, automation, and novel forms of online voting, which
usually focus on software updates or the distribution of common pools of
financial resources.

 **5.**   _Existing systems of decentralized network governance differ in two
defining aspects: (1) whether rules around implementing changes to the
relevant software protocols are included in the software itself; (2) the level
of formalization and institutionalization of off-chain governance._

Software protocols running on decentralized networks are subject to both
planned and emergency updates. Network participants are generally free to
choose whether to interact with the software or not, and thereby continue
participating in or leave the network. Networks differ in the degree to which
the software itself is used to formalize and automate the coordination and
decision-making that guides the system (the relative importance of on-chain
governance), which may include a voting mechanism tied to an identity
verification process or a network-specific token. While on-chain governance is
formalized by definition, off-chain governing activities are spread across a
spectrum from more informal and irregular to increasingly institutionalized.
Off-chain governance includes uncoordinated individual action, private
conversations, public events, online interactions (especially on social media
platforms where materials and memes are circulated), activities of various
legal entities contributing to the network, as well as voting and decision-
making mechanisms independent of on-chain governance.

 **6.**   _Avoiding changes to software or other system parameters helps
preserve existing systemic tendencies; changing software or other system
parameters may introduce new risk factors, but is also a powerful tool for
enabling new systemic tendencies._

Reducing the perceived need and legitimate options for changing the rules of
the network is often referred to as governance-minimization. In practice, it
amounts to (1) the ossification of early design choices (i.e. maximizing the
discretion of individuals who performed one of the most important acts of
decentralized network governance by defining the initial rules of the system),
or (2) increasing the system’s ability to adjust to changing circumstances
automatically (i.e. with minimal human effort). In such networks, considerable
effort is often spent on defending the immutability of the design features and
control mechanisms that govern the system. While a strong bias for maintaining
the status quo or strict adherence to a specific set of rules could hinder the
network’s ability to evolve and improve, it helps preserve existing systemic
features and tendencies. In contrast, more open-ended and dynamic systems of
governance tend to be less stable but also more adaptable. By providing
legitimate options for different stakeholders to affect the rules, structure,
and direction of the network in reaction to changing perceptions or
circumstances, such networks are better positioned to address systemic issues,
but thereby also more likely to introduce novel risks and challenges.

 **7.**   _Good decentralized network governance is one that steers the
network through its various stages of development towards more innovative and
socially useful functions, while adequately resolving conflicts between
different stakeholders participating in or affected by the network._

Humans avoid the need to constantly renegotiate solutions to recurring
problems by developing habits and roles that eventually become
institutionalized — a manual equivalent of rules-based automation. But even
the simplest and most stable institutions are embedded in a complex and
constantly changing environment. As a result, institutions need to adapt and
evolve, which can be difficult due to conformism, structural inertia, and the
well-organized defense mechanisms of entrenched interests. The same applies to
decentralized networks. Given the variation in founding principles and
intended use, it is reasonable to develop different systems of governance for
different networks. But generally speaking, good network governance aligns the
interests of all stakeholders through a sufficiently flexible system of checks
and balances. Imbalanced governance or inability to resolve conflicts between
key stakeholders creates instability, which is particularly problematic for
networks positioned to become systemically important administrative
infrastructure with a very large user base.

 **8.**   _In networks that adopt a formal system of governance, distributing
decision-making authority among different stakeholders, including the end-
users of the network, is an effective form of decentralization and a safeguard
against the abuse of concentrated power._

Broadly speaking, the most important groups participating in decentralized
networks are: (1) technical experts responsible for developing software and
operating the relevant infrastructure (or otherwise contributing in a highly
specialized capacity); (2) individuals and organizations with large financial
interests tied to the network; and (3) users. In practice, there may be
overlap between the three, but each is commonly associated with a particular
form of decision-making: technocratic (experts), plutocratic (most financial
skin in the game), and democratic (users at large). Decentralized networks
tend to be technocratic by default. For more inclusive decision-making, a
typical first step is to implement a [token-
weighted](https://medium.com/@mariolaul/institutional-participation-in-token-
weighted-network-governance-f4766289ea19) voting system, which usually results
in a plutocracy. More democratic forms of network governance are currently
underexplored and raise a number of difficult questions. Who or what defines
the demos, the network constituency? Which decisions require a popular vote?
Are there sufficiently secure and privacy-preserving voting solutions
available? Assuming that some democratic check on the power of dominant actors
is warranted, should it take the form of direct, representative, or delegative
(liquid) democracy? These are all network-specific empirical questions.

 **9.**   _The quality of non-expert decision-making in decentralized network
governance is strongly influenced by political communication — a task that
requires professionalization._

Most organizations that coordinate complex activities involving large numbers
of people establish a division of labour, leading to the emergence of
specialized stocks of knowledge and competence. Such specialization already
exists in the design, building, operation, and governance of decentralized
networks, and is likely to grow in the future. In networks where power is
distributed among individuals who are not necessarily experts on matters they
can influence, it therefore becomes necessary to inform the constituency about
the potential effects of their decisions and the relative merits of competing
paths forward. This is the world of network politics, where different
stakeholders — often via charismatic individuals with good communication
skills — seek popular support for their ideas and plans. Beyond their role as
passive consumers, the vast majority of users are unlikely to participate in
the more technical or everyday aspects of network governance, especially when
they’re content with the status quo. But this should not be construed as
sufficient evidence against the benefits of empowering end-users, such as
encouraging public debate, accountability, and legitimacy, all of which are
particularly important in times of contention or crisis.

 **10.**   _Decentralized networks with governance models that are poorly
defined or overly complex and resource-intensive tend to be at a long-term
disadvantage relative to competing networks that optimize for procedural
clarity, simplicity, and smart automation with emergency safeguards._

Opaque and inconsistent governance models make it difficult for network
participants to coordinate around a shared understanding of what’s a
legitimate course of action in different situations. This increases the
likelihood of conflict, which may lead to fragmentation and network forks.
Networks with governance models that are too complex or require excessive
amounts of human effort or other resources tend to be less scalable and less
adaptable than networks with governance models that combine simple design
principles with an ability to manage change when necessary. A popular method
for making the governance of decentralized networks more efficient is
automation — any technique that reduces the need for human assistance in
performing a task or completing a process. However, automated governance
mechanisms should be continuously assessed based on the systemic tendencies
these mechanisms promote, and augmented with appropriate safeguards for
handling emergency situations caused by catastrophic software bugs or other
extreme events.

Original post [here](https://medium.com/@mariolaul/ten-theses-on-
decentralized-network-governance-c1a24a9d59c7).

Tags [Mario](/blog/tag/Mario)

[<- Can one hear the shape of a CFMM? (Part 1)](/blog/2020/12/2/can-one-hear-
the-shape-of-a-cfmm-part-1)[Stop Burning Tokens – Buyback and Make Instead
->](/blog/2020/9/17/stop-burning-tokens-buyback-and-make-instead)

[ ](https://twitter.com/placeholdervc)

## Subscribe

Sign up with your email address to receive news and updates.

First Name

Last Name

Email Address

Sign Up

We respect your privacy.

Thank you!

