[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ 中文 ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [updates](../../../blog/updates)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Jan 30, 2020  

## Testnet Phase 2 update

As announced in our [last roadmap update](https://filecoin.io/blog/roadmap-
update-2019-q4/), we’re using a [public Gantt
chart](https://app.instagantt.com/shared/s/1152992274307505/latest) to
maintain an updated view of our roadmap to launch. We are currently in Testnet
Phase 1, and are gearing up to launch Testnet Phase 2. This blog post assumes
knowledge of our milestones and what they mean; if you’d like a refresher,
read more [here](https://filecoin.io/blog/roadmap-update-2019-q4/#what-s-
next).

[![Public Filecoin Gantt
Chart](https://filecoin.io/vintage/images/blog/testnet-phase-2-gantt-
chart.jpg)](https://filecoin.io/vintage/images/blog/testnet-phase-2-gantt-
chart.jpg)

Testnet Phase 2 is a feature-based release that will launch with _multiple
feature-complete and interoperable Filecoin implementations._ This release
will focus on achieving interoperability between the
[**lotus**](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/) and [**go-
filecoin**](https://github.com/filecoin-project/go-filecoin/) implementations.
Both **lotus** and **go-filecoin** will use currently secure proofs
constructions, cryptoeconomic mechanisms, and parameters. While the protocol,
proofs implementations, and node implementations won’t be _finalized_ by the
Testnet Phase 2 launch date, they will be very close to final.

We have not finalized a launch date for Testnet Phase 2. Here is a breakdown
of the dependencies and rough timing before we can launch:

  * **lotus** and **go-filecoin** are aiming to be feature-complete in early February
  * We will begin interop testing as soon as lotus and go-filecoin are feature-complete
  * After interop testing is complete, we will have a 1-week code freeze
  * After this code freeze period, we will launch Testnet Phase 2

Our current, optimistic plan places Testnet Phase 2 launch the week of
February 24, 2020. As mentioned above, this is a feature-based release, so
these dates may change depending on the completion of key milestone features.
We will post on this blog when we have a final date for the Testnet Phase 2
launch.

**One other note:** We recognize that many Filecoin community members are
located in regions affected by the novel coronavirus outbreak and might have
limited access to participate in the testnet until late February. First, we
send our love and support to these community members. Please stay safe!
Second, we guarantee that **we will not launch Testnet Phase 2 before February
24, 2020.** We’ll post here when we have our Testnet Phase 2 launch date.

### Upcoming Milestones

Based on the above, rough timing for our upcoming milestones is:

  * Testnet phase 1: December 11, 2019 - February 21, 2020
  * Testnet phase 2: February 24 - April 24, 2020
  * Mainnet launch window: April 27 - May 29, 2020 
    * This 1 month window is intended to cover unforeseen circumstances (such as critical security vulnerabilities that need to be addressed, etc) that might delay launch
    * We **plan** to launch at the beginning of this launch window

As always, these dates are best estimates, and could potentially shift. We are
providing this more granular view into our roadmap because our community has
overwhelmingly requested more frequent, “best estimate” updates, even if they
may end up changing. We are doing our best to provide accurate timing
information, but please understand that this information is not static – it
will change.

As always, we thank you for your continued support! See you on the testnet!

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You’ve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

