[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/d60d4078b57d&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![BlocksetHQ](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*AeDR47iyu3-7YKooygJrzg.png)](https://medium.com/blocksethq?source=post_page
-----d60d4078b57d--------------------------------)

Published in

[BlocksetHQ

](https://medium.com/blocksethq?source=post_page-----
d60d4078b57d--------------------------------)

[![Blockset](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/2*EGqsd_JFSdppEEEXi9arRg.png)](/@BlocksetHQ?source=post_page
-----d60d4078b57d--------------------------------)

[Blockset](/@BlocksetHQ?source=post_page-----
d60d4078b57d--------------------------------)

Follow

Jun 2, 2020

·

4 min read

#  **The Blockchain Industry Defined: Digital Asset Data Report**

 _This post explains the importance of the newly issued Digital Asset Data
Report by The Block._[ ** _Downloadable
here._**](https://www.tbstat.com/wp/uploads/2020/05/The-State-of-the-Digital-
Asset-Data-and-Infrastructure-Landscape.pdf)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*kCgq8iGckUOMTb1l)

The digital asset industry is now at a stage where enterprises are looking to
understand how blockchain technology can increase efficiency within their
technology stack or integrate with the digital assets themselves. **Many of
these companies have budgets to build pilots and architect potential
implementations.**

Unfortunately, there aren’t many sources of information for these major
players to learn about the technology, industry, or understand which tools are
at their disposal. This lack of formal research is holding back enterprise
adoption, and BRD wanted to do something about that. BRD commissioned The
Block, a leading news and research publication, to create an in-depth, yet
concise report to show a clear landscape of the players making up the industry
today.

# Introducing the Digital Asset Data Report by The Block

Most of us know about the Gartner’s Magic Quadrant or Forrester reports, which
drive industries forward through defining the different players that make it
up.

 **These reports serve a few vital uses** :  
1\. People outside of the said industry can gain a nuanced understanding of
the differences between companies in the space.

2\. Industry players can use these reports as sales tools to move
conversations forward, saving time and money for both the prospect and selling
company.

3\. Shift the mindset of populations at large scale passed surface questions
like “what is blockchain” to who is the best infrastructure provider, or
market data provider, or on-chain analytics provider.

Defining reports like these have never existed in the digital asset space,
until now. This report, called “[ **The State of the Digital Asset Data and
Infrastructure Landscape**](https://www.tbstat.com/wp/uploads/2020/05/The-
State-of-the-Digital-Asset-Data-and-Infrastructure-Landscape.pdf)” was
published on May 14, 2020, by The Block. The report shows the major players,
up and comers, and where all the companies stand in terms of revenue
potential, profit potential, and overall growth.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*5WPVnxMT4R9FJ0Ap)

Beyond the in-depth market research that the report offers, we view this
report as a fundamental, upward turning point for the blockchain industry.
Here’s why.

# It’s Maturing the Industry

The digital asset industry is more than an experiment. It’s not only for
cypherpunks to test cryptographic signing or tinker with mining rigs. It’s no
secret that there are thousands of cryptocurrencies, digital assets, non-
fungible tokens, and massive mining operations supporting these networks. With
such support at the ground level, there needs to be higher-level focus,
definition, and experienced professionals involved.

 **Professionals in the traditional technology or FinTech spaces who are
tasked with using a budget to build pilots now know where to look. They have a
better sense of the tools and products available to them**.

# Create a Mental Construct

When people think of blockchain technology, they can now gain a notion in
their minds. People are able to conceptualize companies, logos, and the
different skills required for different types of companies in the industry.

This report, including a [**recent webinar on the
report**](https://www.theblockcrypto.com/post/66166/the-block-presents-the-
state-of-the-digital-asset-data-and-infrastructure-landscape), is attracting
lots of high-level, C-level attendees with real, tangible interest. Rather
than asking surface questions like “what is blockchain” or “what are you
doing” — the questions can now go one step deeper, enabling large institutions
to understand the power of blockchain and the different players involved,
which allows them to carve larger budgets and begin to reach out to specific
companies to help with development. **This is a starting point for real
enterprise adoption.**

# BRD Commissioned It. Why?

It should be known that BRD did commission this report. BRD commissioned it
because the company strongly believed that there needed to be formal discovery
done for the communities within the blockchain space and outside of the
blockchain space to understand what the blockchain industry is doing, how
we’re growing, as well as define various categories that different types of
companies bucket into.

It’s likely that an outside firm would not underwrite such a report, so we
were pleased and excited to do so. **Despite the fact that we commissioned the
report, we had no say in the results, how to conduct the research, or have any
involvement in the process whatsoever.** This was all done by The Block’s
research team. Our angle was simply to gain genuine insights for our industry
and the rest of the world to see.

The goal was to have a formal analysis done to define the industry. This
report is crucial for our industry, including friends and competitors. The
reality is that until now, there was no way to conceptualize the industry.
When someone thinks of a website or the internet, there is a notion and
defined view that comes to mind, but not with blockchain. This report is the
first step in doing that.

On top of this one report, our vision is that this spurs more research,
practical conversations, and more high-level webinars and events to continue
to push this amazing technology and industry forward.

 **We will be posting more information soon breaking down the report and
emphasizing the valuable insights that come with it. To get a headstart,**[
**download it here**](https://www.tbstat.com/wp/uploads/2020/05/The-State-of-
the-Digital-Asset-Data-and-Infrastructure-Landscape.pdf) **.**

\--

\--

\--

## [More from BlocksetHQ](/blocksethq?source=post_page-----
d60d4078b57d--------------------------------)

Enterprise blockchain data

[Read more from BlocksetHQ](/blocksethq?source=post_page-----
d60d4078b57d--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Gamestate](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*oALEeZxIA7Q9zNhHJn9Nmw.jpeg)](/@gamestate?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Gamestate

](/@gamestate?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Gamestate Partners with Streetlab to bring Street Art NFTs to the Megaverse

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*9tQKT_6kJLdf0-Vh.jpg)](/@gamestate/gamestate-
partners-with-streetlab-to-bring-street-art-nfts-to-the-
megaverse-f7566633fdb?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Crypto Gyan
Hindi](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*dSss39uW1qvcEgco)](/@cryptogyanhindi?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Crypto Gyan Hindi

](/@cryptogyanhindi?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## EasyFi extends collaboration with Tidal to offer Multi-chain user insurance

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*VTVDt2lumS3TSMDqGooaPQ.jpeg)](/@cryptogyanhindi/easyfi-
extends-collaboration-with-tidal-to-offer-multi-chain-user-
insurance-e0e957809261?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Blaise
Hilary](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*tBzTWylGrlUUw-L92x13Mw.jpeg)](/@blaisehilary1?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Blaise Hilary

](/@blaisehilary1?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Seascape Network forms a Strategic Alliance with prePOp

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*CCxXcMAkfZcv1OoHgnsw3A.jpeg)](/@blaisehilary1/seascape-
network-forms-a-strategic-alliance-with-
prepop-1eefa35ff281?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![The Blocknet
Protocol](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*oSWCwHv9NQjUYXSHR76cYg.png)](/@theblocknetchannel?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[The Blocknet Protocol

](/@theblocknetchannel?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

in

[Blocknet

](https://medium.com/blocknet?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Word on the BLOCK: 15th May 2020

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*ClUE9Orwn5DJHiq_)](/blocknet/word-
on-the-block-15th-may-2020-ee171dc04829?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Seres István
András](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*4q0JCw9dyth4van9.jpg)](/@istvan-
a-seres?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

[Seres István András

](/@istvan-a-seres?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## AZTEC vs PGC or the quest for confidential transactions

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*nqohxKqpiX2Exj-
iew_GmQ.jpeg)](/@istvan-a-seres/aztec-vs-pgc-or-the-quest-for-confidential-
transactions-d137a0e4f7ed?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Telos
Foundation](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*i_p44W7GGWl3tqCrmFZVDw.png)](/@hellotelos?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Telos Foundation

](/@hellotelos?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[The Telos Network Blog

](https://medium.com/telos-foundation?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Epios Project aims to facilitate anonymous COVID-19 testing

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*tg8qdOihusMt7NfA)](/telos-
foundation/epios-project-aims-to-facilitate-anonymous-
covid-19-testing-6a57daef73f1?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Yueming
Xu](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*vD5eJKQI9Oc31nNS.jpg)](/@yueming_xu?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Yueming Xu

](/@yueming_xu?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Non-fungible Token can be a joyful journey

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*hVkS2ig_A4gKIdQ2)](/@yueming_xu/non-
fungible-token-can-be-a-joyful-journey-da51b43f119a?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[[![yussuph
muhammed](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*dQEW0uTcxxHbfIP9.jpg)](/@mmyussuph?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[yussuph muhammed

](/@mmyussuph?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## RIGEL PROTOCOL PARTNERS WITH CERTIK.io

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*TXsb-mNFyQZRNahEJ_-
GSw@2x.jpeg)](/@mmyussuph/about-rigel-
protocol-97d683dfb524?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----d60d4078b57d--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
d60d4078b57d--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
d60d4078b57d--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
d60d4078b57d--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
d60d4078b57d--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----d60d4078b57d--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----d60d4078b57d--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fblocksethq%2Fthe-
blockchain-industry-defined-digital-asset-data-
report-d60d4078b57d&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Blockset](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/2*EGqsd_JFSdppEEEXi9arRg.png)](/@BlocksetHQ)

[

## Blockset

](/@BlocksetHQ)

12 Followers

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fusers%2F4bd1e7b24281%2Flazily-enable-
writer-
subscription&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fblocksethq%2Fthe-
blockchain-industry-defined-digital-asset-data-
report-d60d4078b57d&user=Blockset&userId=4bd1e7b24281&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![AdevarID](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*UqFPlgkVJiErXi4tGAMaig.png)](/@adevarID?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------9232004c_2721_4095_a783_e76796197bc7-------)

[AdevarID

](/@adevarID?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
9232004c_2721_4095_a783_e76796197bc7-------)

## Difference between Web1.0 , 2.0, 3.0

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*_2r5mL81MkqN7NoLGQbeqA.jpeg)](/@adevarID/difference-
between-web1-0-2-0-3-0-e7ec072e468?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------9232004c_2721_4095_a783_e76796197bc7-------)

[[![Sophie
Dale](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*rOc_cARUFrbkX6v3EVgw8A.jpeg)](/@sophie_14905?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------9232004c_2721_4095_a783_e76796197bc7-------)

[Sophie Dale

](/@sophie_14905?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
9232004c_2721_4095_a783_e76796197bc7-------)

in

[sinofy.group

](https://medium.com/sinofy-group?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------9232004c_2721_4095_a783_e76796197bc7-------)

## Sinofy X Solidus AI Tech

![](https://miro.medium.com/freeze/focal/112/112/50/50/1*UQhhK74ElegCL-
hn9ydlJg.gif)](/sinofy-group/sinofy-x-solidus-ai-
tech-258d017a6ef2?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
9232004c_2721_4095_a783_e76796197bc7-------)

[[![Vraj
Patel](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*1djG9pQrwPZphCJcJA_oKA.jpeg)](/@mrvrajofficial?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------9232004c_2721_4095_a783_e76796197bc7-------)

[Vraj Patel

](/@mrvrajofficial?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
9232004c_2721_4095_a783_e76796197bc7-------)

## How billion dollar startup foodpanda failed due to technology?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*J31nN6SPnResTeCKR1-nJQ.jpeg)](/@mrvrajofficial/insight-
into-foodpanda-d12fbc66f3f6?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------9232004c_2721_4095_a783_e76796197bc7-------)

[[![School of
Future](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*LDUXvqvSjdEuLIgEccJCjQ.png)](/@info_92276?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------9232004c_2721_4095_a783_e76796197bc7-------)

[School of Future

](/@info_92276?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
9232004c_2721_4095_a783_e76796197bc7-------)

## Billion Dollar Idea

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*AGAd1pRjuH9grwr7)](/@info_92276/billion-
dollar-idea-c92bc86a324f?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------9232004c_2721_4095_a783_e76796197bc7-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

