[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/91c77efbaff2&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![safenetwork](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*oEy3kCG2HULiXdpEQdr6Nw.jpeg)](https://medium.com/safenetwork?source=post_page
-----91c77efbaff2--------------------------------)

Published in

[safenetwork

](https://medium.com/safenetwork?source=post_page-----
91c77efbaff2--------------------------------)

[![Ceilidh Gray](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/2*jCW-
zwjhNKbXgOWMpXA8MQ.jpeg)](/@ceilidhgray?source=post_page-----
91c77efbaff2--------------------------------)

[Ceilidh Gray](/@ceilidhgray?source=post_page-----
91c77efbaff2--------------------------------)

Follow

Oct 16, 2019

·

4 min read

#  **The Curse of a Cashless Society**

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*OWzG-5QNkVFwgioFm3aC0g.jpeg)

Photo by [Gus
Moretta](https://unsplash.com/@gusmorettaa?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)
on
[Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/s/photos/payment?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)

Last month, the British Retail Consortium (BRC) released a report showing that
[shoppers spent more on their credit cards than with cash last
year.](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-49745136) While the use of debit
cards overtook cash a few years ago, this is the first time that credit has
done so. Today cash makes up 20% of all transactions in the UK, with the
remaining 80% being plastic — or more accurately, digital. And worryingly, the
current rate means that cash could well and truly be dead in another 10 years.

Some argue that removing cash will reduce crime and help us build better
solutions with the technology available to use today (it’s hard to argue that
tapping your card is much easier than fumbling in your pocket for coins). To
others, cash is essential for some of the more vulnerable in society: the
poor, the disabled, or those who just need the physicality of cash to help
with budgeting. But both these arguments miss something pretty important. In a
cashless society, our financial life is no longer private.

 **Why Killing Cash Can Be Attractive**

But _why_ do countries ‘go cashless’ in the first place. Take Sweden, for
example. It’s a widely used example of a modern cashless society. It’s often
seen as a progressive country that stands as a beacon of a new societal
relationship with money. But how did it get to that point? Technology does not
act in isolation. For real societal change, you must also examine how social
conditions that foster alongside, or even more accurately, intertwined in the
technology.

Sweden is no different. While the adoption of digital technologies, of course,
played a large role, something more unique triggered the acceptance of this
move away from cash. An increase in robberies across banks and shops during
the mid-2000’s influenced the view on how cash was perceived. Between 2004 and
2005, robberies rose from[ 8,590 to
9,298](https://www.bra.se/statistik/kriminalstatistik.html) — an increase of
over 9% in just one year. But it wasn’t until 2009 when the [infamous
Västberga helicopter
robbery](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/V%C3%A4stberga_helicopter_robbery)
occurred that a new emotional relationship with cash was forged, edging Sweden
on its way to a new era.

Meanwhile in the East, China adopted the concept of a cashless environment as
a form of social control. The well-reported social credit system is
intrinsically linked to individuals’ wealth and spending habits. How better to
control a nation than to ensure all their payments are made digitally? The
people who sold the benefits of mobile wallets said it would reduce
counterfeit notes, increase security and of course help bolster their social
credit scores. Unlike some of the European countries, [China leads the way in
the mobile wallets](https://www.techinasia.com/ewallets-china-southeast-asia-
learn) and peer-to-peer payments and has initiatives in place to seize
Sweden’s crown in becoming the world’s first cashless society.

 **Why Cashless is Isn’t The Answer**

The social relationship with money is incredibly complex that we can’t do
justice here. The reasons that explain why countries go cashless are many —
and not always as simple as promised. But let’s take a look at a few.

When it comes to increased security, the argument is somewhat flawed. Stories
of hacking and unlawfully accessing individuals’ data and information are
rife. Not a single day goes past without some attack, or attempt, taking place
around the world.

The other pertinent issue is control or lack thereof. Without cash, our money
is bound by gatekeepers, and underhandedly nefarious gatekeepers at that. A
sweeping statement, but Banks are untrustworthy. A survey in 2018 showed [66%
of the UK population don’t trust banks](https://uk.reuters.com/article/uk-
britain-banks/british-public-dont-trust-banks-10-years-after-crisis-survey-
finds-idUKKBN1L11EL). The moment you entrust your hard-earned savings to a
third party, you assume an additional risk to the future of your family which
you need to manage with costly insurance and trust that further regulations
will protect you. It’s a fear that becomes all the more terrifying if you’re
stuck in a politically unstable or corrupt country.

The presence of an intermediary means every transaction is recorded, and
nothing can be done without that overseeing eye. Our privacy is at once eroded
and destroyed as the arms race begins for the biggest collection of economic
data. Whilst you can track where your money is going, so can others — and they
often have different priorities that aren’t aligned with your own.

 **Are Cryptocurrencies the Solution?**

Cash has unique properties. It’s physical, you can touch it. Cash can be spent
anonymously. We’re untraceable. And while yes, it can be stolen or lost, it
can’t be assumed that these issues disappear in digital markets. But if the
answer isn’t reverting back to cash-only societies, so could this new breed of
cryptocurrencies solve these problems?

In a blunt answer, no. While cryptocurrencies can solve answer many problems
in our economic system, not all currencies are created equal. Blockchain-based
currencies are usually on a public ledger. Great when transparency is
essential (tracking government spending for example), but nightmarish for your
own personal expenses. Anonymity, in general, tends to lack from many crypto
payments. Take Bitcoin. All transactions are stored publicly and permanently
on the Network, which means anyone can see the balance and transaction history
of any Bitcoin address.

But there is light at the end of the tunnel. There are some crypto projects
out there that have privacy baked-in, not just as a consideration but
essential to their product. Zcash and Monero are oft-referenced examples but
our very own Safecoin has all the properties than enable a truly private coin.

So while the future might be storming towards a cashless society, we’re ok
with that. We have a solution with privacy baked-in. And as our coin isn’t
built on a blockchain, there’s no public ledger. Only the current and previous
owner of each coin are known to each other. So you can be paid in private.

You can find out more about Safecoin over on our
[website](https://safenetwork.tech/safecoin/).

\--

3

\--

\--

3

## [More from safenetwork](/safenetwork?source=post_page-----
91c77efbaff2--------------------------------)

Stories from around the SAFE Network

[Read more from safenetwork](/safenetwork?source=post_page-----
91c77efbaff2--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Skypeople](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*hNEcCx1D5_GFpZUVQc4qxQ.png)](/@skypeoplemaster?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Skypeople

](/@skypeoplemaster?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## [SkyPeople] TRON SR Proposals & SkyPeople News

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*7enIZ1KogQmg42lM5mnpmA.png)](/@skypeoplemaster/skypeople-
tron-sr-proposals-skypeople-news-1997557bcd02?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[[![Elochi](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*X841TecXb7quPFWx.)](/@elochi?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Elochi

](/@elochi?source=post_internal_links---------1----------------------------)

## How to Make Money Online by Earning Free Bitcoins in 2021

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*NmSBS-
NOCaUYMnlQ)](/@elochi/how-to-make-money-online-by-earning-free-bitcoins-
in-2021-783897274eae?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Bridget
Toomey](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*XAoPnRb61SxWNJ9sv1L3dg.jpeg)](/@batoomey?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Bridget Toomey

](/@batoomey?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

## Insurance for Your Digital Assets — Part I

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*w_OSoQGw6jXf-B8rhcSS4w.png)](/@batoomey/insurance-
for-your-digital-assets-part-i-51b02aeadfcf?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[[![BamBi Finance](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*rLpjrXZv-
UH5cUMItOcNBQ.png)](/@bambiliey?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[BamBi Finance

](/@bambiliey?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Cross Chain Compatible BamBi is All Set to Change the DeFi Landscape

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*2lfhxLI7f2LTN3Di5sLPDA.png)](/@bambiliey/cross-
chain-compatible-bambi-is-all-set-to-change-the-defi-
landscape-51b0834f34fd?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![QUASA](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*c_uELwS444tPFyzgG1l2oA.png)](/@quasa?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[QUASA

](/@quasa?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

## Authors of works can join and submit their works on the QUASA NFT platform

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*T-V2947gBXmFODoKpP7aBg.jpeg)](/@quasa/authors-
of-works-can-join-and-submit-their-works-on-the-quasa-nft-
platform-d33f7fd8848f?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Euclides
Manuel](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Oo9yE6H4TlrOeUsxp6Ji3A.png)](/@ngolamussassa?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Euclides Manuel

](/@ngolamussassa?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[Yetuswap

](https://medium.com/yetuswap?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## 🍓Berry AMA With YetuSwap & $400 Giveaway

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*BngrTu228jW9QZ-
pf0NTIA.jpeg)](/yetuswap/berry-ama-with-
yetuswap-400-giveaway-3fb4b304c2ed?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![RaAres](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*vw0z4kZq1PBjochO5no8uA.jpeg)](/@raares888?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[RaAres

](/@raares888?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Smart Farmer guide and how to farm properly any farm in 2021.

](/@raares888/smart-farmer-guide-and-how-to-farm-properly-any-farm-
in-2021-efdffa77a8db?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Chris](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@crypto-
rhino?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

[Chris

](/@crypto-rhino?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## GALA node — FURTHER price increase with last node selling for $150k!

](/@crypto-rhino/gala-node-further-price-increase-with-last-node-selling-
for-150k-9ffb4a956e05?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----91c77efbaff2--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
91c77efbaff2--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
91c77efbaff2--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
91c77efbaff2--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
91c77efbaff2--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----91c77efbaff2--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----91c77efbaff2--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fsafenetwork%2Fthe-
curse-of-a-cashless-society-91c77efbaff2&source=post_page
--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Ceilidh Gray](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/2*jCW-
zwjhNKbXgOWMpXA8MQ.jpeg)](/@ceilidhgray)

[

## Ceilidh Gray

](/@ceilidhgray)

29 Followers

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fusers%2Fce8754a79334%2Flazily-enable-
writer-
subscription&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fsafenetwork%2Fthe-
curse-of-a-cashless-
society-91c77efbaff2&user=Ceilidh+Gray&userId=ce8754a79334&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Mrsamarseo](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@mrsamarseo?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------66a2a25a_c89c_498e_afc6_af31026400d2-------)

[Mrsamarseo

](/@mrsamarseo?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
66a2a25a_c89c_498e_afc6_af31026400d2-------)

## Terraism: The New Economic System for the Metaverse

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*X98OniEyKbLRRZAKj4-Ssg.jpeg)](/@mrsamarseo/terraism-
the-new-economic-system-for-the-metaverse-d47d6e5381b9?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------66a2a25a_c89c_498e_afc6_af31026400d2-------)

[[![Rasean Miller](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*qL-
rUUBToSRHNAM5iAkBDQ.jpeg)](/@rasean?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------66a2a25a_c89c_498e_afc6_af31026400d2-------)

[Rasean Miller

](/@rasean?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
66a2a25a_c89c_498e_afc6_af31026400d2-------)

## 4\. Why is ESCO-in-a-box® So Unique?

](/@rasean/4-why-is-esco-in-a-box-so-
unique-3fe723173b6f?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
66a2a25a_c89c_498e_afc6_af31026400d2-------)

[[![Annamaria
Grayce](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@mircowaup364?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------66a2a25a_c89c_498e_afc6_af31026400d2-------)

[Annamaria Grayce

](/@mircowaup364?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
66a2a25a_c89c_498e_afc6_af31026400d2-------)

## Jeff Brown The Second Wave (Tech Melt) — The Facts

](/@mircowaup364/jeff-brown-the-second-wave-tech-melt-the-
facts-440dd5480233?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
66a2a25a_c89c_498e_afc6_af31026400d2-------)

[[![Divyanshu
Chaturvedi](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*y4XbL5JpCb65yT59wv_tcg.jpeg)](/@divyanshu_chat?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------66a2a25a_c89c_498e_afc6_af31026400d2-------)

[Divyanshu Chaturvedi

](/@divyanshu_chat?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
66a2a25a_c89c_498e_afc6_af31026400d2-------)

in

[Madsbay

](https://medium.com/madsbay?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------66a2a25a_c89c_498e_afc6_af31026400d2-------)

## Where Will Eco Friendly Clothing Be 1 Year From Now?

![Where Will Eco Friendly Clothing Be 1 Year From
Now?](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*DA3IvcTcyMwjzNXC)](/madsbay/where-
will-eco-friendly-clothing-be-1-year-from-
now-d2a32ab0ec33?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
66a2a25a_c89c_498e_afc6_af31026400d2-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

