![Some loose ends needed addressing, but why was the recovery so
fast?](https://images.squarespace-
cdn.com/content/v1/5720adbdc6fc0891cbcce17c/1470150806757-V3CJ3APKM88GMZYE1P07/image-
asset.jpeg?format=1000w)

Some loose ends needed addressing, but why was the recovery so fast?

My doctor took one look at my knee and his jaw dropped. He had hardly ever—or
perhaps never—seen a knee that looked _that_ good just four days after
arthroscopic surgery.

This clinic specializes in these surgeries, so he sees patients, many of them
young athletes, in post-surgical recovery checkups daily. He kept looking at
my knee and then looking at me—a middle aged guy. He checked the chart to make
sure the surgery was actually just four days ago. Still in disbelief, he asked
me what I had done.

What came next was instructive. I told him I thought the surprisingly fast
recovery might be due to my very low carb diet.

His response was surreal, because non-existent. He did not acknowledge what I
had said. He just kept going on about how good the knee looked and how he had
hardly ever seen such a fast recovery.

The rest of the conversation was clear and normal. We talked about how the
stitches were coming out next time. We talked about how, given the fast
recovery, I probably didn’t need that physical therapy after all.

I was still curious, so I mentioned just once more that maybe the notable
recovery could be due to my low-carb diet, because that seems to reduce
inflammation.

Once again, no reaction. It was as if I had spoken just that one line in
Chinese. No, not even that. Switching to Mandarin would have elicited _some_
noticeable reaction. Would the fact of my statement cease to exist if not
acknowledged?

 **A tale of two otherwise identical surgeries**

I have spent several decades in somewhat rough activities including martial
arts earlier and amateur adult soccer later. With such activities, it can seem
at times like rolling dice when an individual’s luck might run a bit low and
an arthroscopic meniscus repair will be called for. Once this kind of tissue
tears a little, it just does not heal by itself. Worse, the torn piece can
obstruct the joint and lead to additional tearing and other problems. It’s a
little like having a hand-knit sweater with a hanging thread that is just
waiting to get caught and unravel some more (but with pain involved). The
hanging thread just needs to be trimmed off. The invention of arthroscopic
technology revolutionized the ease with which this could be done.

My first such surgery was in 2010. Of course, I thought I had learned my
lesson and would not be back. But alas, in a single lapse of focus, the other
knee over-extended on a bad landing on the futsal court in late 2015, the
fault only of myself. So my second such surgery, on the other knee this time,
was done recently in 2016.

My recovery six years ago was good, but relatively more ordinary. It at least
did not elicit any jaw dropping from the specialist. I recovered nicely, above
average, but I do not think I recovered _this_ well.

It was also striking to me after this 2016 surgery that I awakened from
anesthesia crisply, with perfect clarity, as if from an unusually excellent
night’s sleep. I do not remember a feeling at all like that from my
corresponding 2010 recovery room awakening. I recall it as groggy and gradual,
more as I would have expected. This may or may not be important or
coincidental, but I note that a major effect of a low-carb ketogenic diet is a
gradual transformation of preferred cellular fuel sources, including for the
brain, so an effect like this is plausible. I have noticed clear improvements
in sleep patterns following dietary changes and full anesthesia and sleep are
related states.

There is certainly individual variation in recovery rates, but the interesting
thing here is the rare opportunity to compare the same person recovering from
two identical surgeries at two different times. Six years apart, these were
_the_ _same_ surgeries, performed by the same surgeon, and conducted at the
same clinic with the same anesthesiologist in the same room. They were for
remarkably similar injuries. The surgeries were conducted a similar length of
time after the initial incident (in both cases, after about eight months of
“conservative” recovery and training efforts). I am the same person. Almost
every factor was the same.

So what _changed_ between the two events?

First, I am six years _older_. But this would predict a _slower_ recovery, not
a notably faster one.

Second, I have completely changed my diet, including adding fasting periods.
Both low-carb and fasting are known to reduce systemic inflammation compared
with more conventional modern diets, with their high frequency, high refined
carbs, and brutally high omega six. With lower systemic inflammation (call it
immune-system noise), _specific_ inflammation as a healing response at the
surgery site (immune-system signal) might proceed with more appropriate focus
on the local site and without undue exaggeration.

It was only several months after the 2010 surgery that I discovered _The
Primal Blueprint_ and first ditched grains, started even more thoroughly
avoiding refined sugars, and replaced industrial processed seed (“vegetable”)
oils with natural fats. Then, starting around 2013, I moved toward a still
lower-carb, higher-fat whole food ketogenic approach. More recently, just
within 2016, and mainly in the past few months, I have been trying out a
largely carnivorous approach and have introduced more fasting and intermittent
fasting as well.

 **Analysis and implications**

Unfortunately, I have no comparable record of the state of the other knee
after exactly four days in 2010, only necessarily unreliable memories and
impressions. I could be making this up from memory and confirmation bias. Or
the difference between the surgeries could be random or due to some other
unnoticed factor.

Still, even as anecdote, these recollections strike me as notable. And on
reflection, it occurs to me that one of the sad symptoms of diabetes is poorer
wound healing. If a low-carb (and natural fats) diet tends to lead toward the
very opposite of a diabetes crisis metabolism, might it not likewise lead to
the opposite of compromised wound healing? That is, improved and above-average
wound healing. This seems plausible.

The hypothesis here is that conventional high-frequency, high-carb diets might
keep most people’s post-operative and other wounds from healing as quickly as
they might otherwise. The effects of the resulting unnecessary systemic
inflammation would come to appear “normal” only because it would be what
clinics would see from day to day within the particular afflicted populations.
Anyone doing something quite atypical of that population, such as a very low
carb diet, might produce seeming anomalies—relative to this afflicted
population. If lower carb and fasting are superior to higher carb and frequent
eating, as I have come to think they are—through research, countless
biographical and ethnographic reports, and accumulating personal
experience—those anomalies would show up as _positive_ surprises.

Greater clarity here could support dietary practices that improve health
outcomes while reducing, or at least not adding to, reliance on the medication
industry. As I put it in the title of my book review essay on Jason Fung's
_The Obesity Code_ _,_ “[Only the faster
profits](http://www.konradsgraf.com/blog1/2016/4/22/only-the-faster-profits-a-
powerful-health-measure-and-why-it.html).”

Relatively little research money floods in to verify or falsify these types of
potential effects, perhaps, because no potentially profitable pills would be
entailed in producing them. If such benefits might be real, people changing
their own habits would be the primary beneficiaries and direct action to make
personal changes would be the primary method.

