For better experience, please enable JavaScript.

[Multicoin Capital](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * Media
  * More
  * [Contact](/contact/)

![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

  * [English](/2017/09/27/state-decentralized-storage/)
  * [中文](/zh/2017/09/27/state-decentralized-storage/)
  * [한국어](/ko/2017/09/27/state-decentralized-storage/)
  * 日本語

![](data:image/png;base64,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)

### Search posts

dark mode

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

  * [Archives](https://github.com/multicoincapital/crypto-archives)
  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)

[Writing](/blog/category/blog/)

## The State of Decentralized Storage

By [Kyle Samani](/about#225b2112-7be1-5fc9-8755-db7e245ba5a5)

September 27, 2017 | 14 Minute Read

![Copy URL to clipboard
button](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

Society is transitioning from the industrial age to the information age, and
data is becoming the world’s most [valuable
resource](https://www.economist.com/leaders/2017/05/06/the-worlds-most-
valuable-resource-is-no-longer-oil-but-data "The world’s most valuable
resource is no longer oil, but data").

As humans continue to generate countless petabytes of data, the question of
where and how to store it becomes increasingly important. Migration from on-
premise storage to cloud storage has been the major theme of the past decade,
and the trend is [accelerating](https://www.eweek.com/storage/451-research-
projects-cloud-storage-market-to-double-by-2017 "451 Research Projects Cloud
Storage Market to Double by 2017"). The tech giants currently dominate this
market. Amazon, Google, Facebook, Apple, and Microsoft each control a huge
share of the world’s data. But this existing system leaves much to be desired.
It’s insecure, expensive, centralized, and involves putting a lot of trust in
these large corporations.

Centralized servers containing valuable or sensitive information are targets
for hackers, as we saw in the [iCloud hack](https://www.ibtimes.co.uk/icloud-
accounts-risk-brute-force-attack-hacker-exploits-painfully-obvious-password-
flaw-1481623 "iCloud accounts at risk of brute force attack as hacker exploits
'painfully obvious' password flaw") of 2014 and the [Dropbox
hack](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2016/aug/31/dropbox-hack-
passwords-68m-data-breach "This article is more than 2 years old Dropbox hack
leads to leaking of 68m user passwords on the internet") of 2012. These
systems are only as secure as the measures put in place by the companies
running them. Even the world’s best and most funded tech teams cannot protect
themselves: see [Equifax](https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/blog/2017/09/equifax-
data-breach-what-do "The Equifax Data Breach: What to Do"),
[Verizon](https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/nicolenguyen/verizon-hack-
account-pin#.qum2LJLeM "Millions Of Verizon Customers’ Account PINs Leaked —
Here’s Why You Should Still Have One"),
[Target](https://money.cnn.com/2013/12/22/news/companies/target-credit-card-
hack/index.html "Target credit card hack: What you need to know"), etc. The
fact that each of these companies actually takes custody of customer data
means that there is always risk of theft.

These companies also have broad jurisdiction to censor individuals or data, to
provide users’ data to governments or other law enforcement agencies, or even
to sell customer data to advertisers. They are central points of failure that
are targets for nefarious actors and are inherently fragile. Earlier this
year, for example, a human error by an Amazon S3 employee
[caused](htttps://aws.amazon.com/message/41926/ "Summary of the Amazon S3
Service Disruption in the Northern Virginia \(US-EAST-1\) Region") several
prominent websites to temporarily go offline.

Blockchain technology has created the first opportunity to rethink cloud
storage on a technical level and as an economic system by solving these major
problems. Blockchain-based decentralized storage is cheaper, more secure,
faster, censorship resistant, and more distributed than existing cloud storage
solutions. It leverages the fact that massive amounts of storage space sits
unused on people’s hard drives around the world; creating a market for this
allows people to monetize their spare storage space. The influx in supply into
the global storage market will drive down storage prices. To do this in a
secure, trustless, peer-to-peer fashion is the promise of the blockchain
itself.

A number of teams are pursuing this opportunity:
[Filecoin](https://filecoin.io/ "Filecoin"), [Storj](https://storj.io/
"Storj"), [SAFE Network](https://safenetwork.org/ "Safe Network"),
[Sia](https://sia.tech/ "Sia"), and [Swarm](https://github.com/ethereum/go-
ethereum/tree/master/swarm "Swarm Protocol") are the major projects in the
space. Below is a general overview of the state of blockchain-based
decentralized cloud storage protocols, and some thoughts about each.

 **Filecoin**

Filecoin is the 800-pound gorilla. [Protocol Labs](https://protocol.ai/
"Protocol Labs"), the company that created Filecoin, has one of the most
experienced and respected teams in the entire blockchain space. Led by CEO
[Juan Benet](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jbenetcs/ "Juan Benet"), the team has
already created both the Interplanetary File System ([IPFS](https://ipfs.io/
"Interplanetary File System")) and [Coinlist](https://coinlist.co/
"Coinlist"). IPFS, which is designed to work with Filecoin, demonstrates the
team’s competence in creating large-scale digital infrastructure, while
Coinlist showcases their ability to create well-functioning and clean user-
facing applications. Both of these characteristics will be paramount for
success.

Moreover, the Protocol Labs team just completed the largest token sale in
history for Filecoin. They raised [$205
million](https://protocol.ai/blog/filecoin-sale-completed/ "FILECOIN SALE
COMPLETED"), effectively arming themselves with a war chest of capital.
Protocol Labs can afford to hire the best developers in the world and invest
in an aggressive go-to-market strategy. It’s also worth noting that Filecoin
has raised money from many of the biggest names in both Silicon Valley and the
blockchain space, including Andreessen Horowitz, USV, Sequoia Capital, Naval
Ravikant, and many more. These players wield significant power and influence,
and their vested interest in making Filecoin a success gives the project a
major advantage over competitors.

Filecoin is the decentralized cloud storage project to beat. As such, many
believe it presents the best investment opportunity in the sector. But
Filecoin is likely 12-18 months out from the launch of the protocol, while
other decentralized storage protocols are live today. If demand for
decentralized cloud storage continues to grow over the next year and a half,
other protocols may be able to use their first-mover advantage to carve out a
market niche.

We believe that network effects are far weaker for decentralized storage than
current market valuations of each decentralized storage token suggest. This
should allow some projects to focus on a particular subset of users who have
unique demands. These features could include an intense focus on privacy, low
latency times, regulatory compliance, and more. Smaller projects with less
funding may find it difficult to compete with Filecoin for overall market
share. Their best bet will likely be to double down on a particular use case
or niche audience.

 **Storj**

Storj is a decentralized cloud storage protocol built on Ethereum. The project
is interesting for a number of reasons, most notably its focus on user
experience.

  1. Storj Labs, the company that created the Storj protocol, has built an easy user interface to access the platform
  2. Storage pricing is fixed in USD terms, meaning users don’t have to worry about fluctuations in the price of the STORJ token
  3. Users can pay by credit card, eliminating the crypto acquisition barrier to entry
  4. Storj offers a pay-as-you-go model for users, which creates an easier user experience

For these reasons, Storj appears to have a much better chance of attracting
consumers than current competitors. Storj, in its current form, is not a
perfect solution. It still requires much more technical know-how than
comparable services like Dropbox, but it offers competitive pricing and much
better privacy and security. For users who care about the latter two,
especially, Storj presents a compelling utility.

Dropbox currently offers 2GB of free space for users, while Storj offers 25GB
of storage and 25GB of bandwidth each month, for 12 months, to new users for
free. Dropbox’s paid service offers 1TB of storage to users at a cost of $9.99
per month or $99 annually. To store 1TB per month on Storj would cost $15
monthly, plus bandwidth costs. Dropbox only offers the 1TB option, no matter
how much data a user wants to store. With Storj, users only pay for what they
actually store, so it is likely a better (and cheaper) option for many users.
Moreover, Dropbox users are unable to purchase more than 1TB of space unless
they upgrade to an enterprise account.

While Dropbox and Storj offer different advantages for different users, Storj
excels in a number of areas. Most notably, Storj offers client-side encryption
and sharding of files (as do all decentralized storage protocols), a service
that strongly appeals to privacy and security-conscious users, which Dropbox
simply can’t provide. Nobody but the owner of the data has access to it, but
it is still stored across a large network of nodes, ensuring redundancy. For
large-scale users, Storj also offers better pricing than Amazon Web Services
and Microsoft Azure, with the additional privacy and security advantages.

One notable issue with Storj is that Storj Labs controls the only point of
access to the network for non-technical users. While this portal is what
allows for Storj’s easy UX, fixed pricing, and fiat capabilities (credit card
payments), it does also present a risk. If Storj allows other third-parties to
create similar portals, it would not only increase access to the protocol and
lessen the centralization risk, it might also drive down prices. These would
both be positive improvements and value-adds for users.

The Storj development team raised [$30
million](https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/storj-token-sale-reaches-
goal-of-30-million-in-seven-days-300464074.html "Storj Token Sale Reaches Goal
of $30 million in Seven Days") in May of 2017, giving them significant capital
to continue to develop and improve the project. While Storj still requires
technical know-how to set up, improvements to the UX and front-end could make
using Storj as easy as using Dropbox or Google Drive in time. This will likely
be the major determining factor that drives usage in the medium-term, and we
hope that the team dedicates significant resources towards this goal.

If Storj is able to implement both improvements to the UX and more points of
access in the near-term, Storj could carve out and maintain a market share
prior to the entrance of the Filecoin behemoth. We believe that it is the
project most likely to do so.

 **SAFE Network**

SAFE Network is one of the most ambitious projects in the space. It attempts
not just to create a decentralized storage network but also to build an
entirely new infrastructure layer for the internet that provides secure and
decentralized storage, application hosting, website hosting, messaging, and
more. Because SAFE Network is attempting to accomplish such a huge task, the
project entails a high level of technical risk.

The salient concern with SAFE Network is that the protocol has been in
development for many years and has yet to officially launch. Such ambitious
projects of course take time, but SAFE Network has less momentum and [less
funding](https://coinreport.net/maidsafe-sells-6-million-safecoin/ "MaidSafe
Sells $6 Million Safecoin in Five Hours of Crowd-Sale") than competing
projects, and the network may not launch for quite some time. We are skeptical
of projects that have been in perpetual R&D.

SAFE Network also utilizes a [non-blockchain consensus
model](https://medium.com/safenetwork/consensus-without-a-
blockchain-1dfda94aa435 "Consensus Without a Blockchain"), designed for
scalability, that is unique to the project. Scalability is incredibly
important, and may be a major factor in the success of decentralized
protocols, but the fact that the SAFE Network is not actually live means that
this consensus model has not been sufficiently tested for fault tolerance.
This presents an additional risk.

Despite these risks, SAFE Network’s promise of high scalability and a fully
decentralized web ecosystem may appeal to some users. The SAFE Network also
prioritizes privacy and security for individual users above almost everything
else, which could allow it to carve out a market share by catering
specifically to this niche.

 **Sia**

Sia is another blockchain project offering decentralized storage, and the
network is currently live and operational. Sia is interesting for its design
features and its funding model. Each offers potential upsides and downsides.

The Sia team has been explicit about its preference for proof-of-work (PoW)
blockchains ([Link 1](https://siawiki.tech/about/pow_vs_pos "PoW vs PoS"),
[Link 2](https://blog.sia.tech/choosing-asics-for-sia-b318505b5b51
"https://blog.sia.tech/choosing-asics-for-sia-b318505b5b51")), and has even
created and sold its own ASICs specifically for Siacoin mining. It is the only
one of these protocols that is specifically committed to this consensus model.
Ethereum (and applications built on top of it) will transition to a proof-of-
stake model, while some of the other decentralized cloud protocols utilize
alternative models. Some users in the blockchain community have a hard
preference for proof-of-work, and Sia can certainly cater to this niche.

Each time a user and a hosting provider enter into a contract on Sia, the user
must put up an allowance (to pay for the hosting), and the hosting provider
must put up a deposit (to ensure good behavior). Upon conclusion of a
contract, 3.9% of both the allowance and the deposit is collected by the
software and paid to holders of Siafunds, a secondary token of the protocol.
Nebulous Labs, the company developing the protocol, holds ~90% of Siafunds.

This is certainly an interesting long-term funding model and an alternative to
the “all-at-once” ICO model in vogue today; however, this feature may impose a
structural cost on the system that makes it more expensive than competitors.
File storage is likely to be a highly competitive market, driving down prices
significantly (compared to current centralized options). Once several
different decentralized cloud storage platforms have been deployed, these
protocols will compete not just with centralized alternatives but also with
one another. Sia levies their 3.9% fee on both the allowance and the deposit,
but in most contracts both of these fees are paid by the user. Other protocols
do not have this structural cost, and that may make them less expensive and
more attractive to users in the long-term.

Finally, Sia faces a somewhat significant barrier to entry. Currently, one
must purchase Bitcoin, use that to purchase Siacoins, and send the Siacoins to
the Sia client software to begin using the network. For everyday users who do
not already hold cryptocurrencies, this is a major roadblock. It also presents
an issue for enterprise clients, since most businesses remain unwilling to
hold or transact in cryptocurrencies for regulatory and financial risk
reasons. To date, the Sia team has not prioritized design, accessibility, or
usability, and has given no indications that this is a significant priority.

 **Swarm**

Swarm is a file storage protocol that is built into the Ethereum Web3 stack.
Swarm functions much like IPFS/Filecoin but has native integration with
Ethereum. Some [high-level differences](https://github.com/ethersphere/go-
ethereum/wiki/IPFS-&-SWARM "IPFS & SWARM") between the two protocols have been
outlined by the Swarm team. For all but the most technical of individuals,
these differences are largely irrelevant. The Filecoin/IPFS project is further
along and will likely launch before Swarm. Swarm’s advantage is its inherent
integration with Ethereum, which is building a large and loyal following of
developers. Swarm provides the storage layer that integrates with Ethereum’s
computation layer and Whisper’s secure messaging layer.

Ethereum’s Mist browser recently [integrated
Swarm](https://www.cryptoninjas.net/2017/07/25/ethereum-mist-browser-add-ens-
swarm-support/ "Ethereum Mist browser adds ENS and Swarm support"), making it
much easier for regular Ethereum DApp users to interact with the protocol.
This integration provides an early example of the kind of infrastructure-level
advantages that Swarm might have in comparison to other protocols by virtue of
being a native layer in the Ethereum stack. Being a built-in part of Mist
instantly gives Swarm a huge audience and user base and will allow the
protocol to more quickly achieve efficient scale.

Swarm only works directly with the Ethereum network, whereas Filecoin and IPFS
could likely integrate with both Ethereum and other platforms. As alternative
protocols like Tezos and EOS emerge, this feature may prove to be an advantage
for Filecoin. What’s more, Swarm may not prove useful for a majority of users
until the entire protocol has been developed (this includes both the storage
layer and the marketplace layer). If Filecoin is first to market and can
integrate well with Ethereum, Swarm is less likely to gain significant market
share.

 **Decentralized Cloud Storage Market**

The total market for cloud storage is large and continues to grow. Amazon Web
Services, which includes Amazon’s cloud storage offerings, earned [$4.1
billion](https://www.geekwire.com/2017/another-strong-quarter-aws-42-percent-
jump-revenue-4-1b/ "Another strong quarter for AWS: 42 percent jump in revenue
to $4.1B") in revenue in Q2 of 2017, implying a $16B annualized rate for both
compute and storage offerings. Market research groups have estimated the
future size of the cloud storage market: $74.94 billion by 2021 and $92.49
billion by 2022. All of the blockchain-based projects listed above, by
contrast, have an implied value of less than $3 billion combined (a
significant majority of which is Filecoin at $2B). Decentralized cloud storage
options will not immediately disrupt existing models — the large corporate
players that currently dominate the market offer services not available to
users of decentralized options. Nevertheless, it is difficult to imagine
decentralized cloud protocols not earning a significant share of this total
market.

One factor not taken into account in these estimates of total market size,
however, is the growth of decentralized storage networks. These blockchain-
based networks will offer significantly cheaper storage, which should reduce
the combined network values of the successful protocols of the industry. The
proliferation of cheaper decentralized options may drive more storage, but
that seems highly unlikely to fully mitigate the effects of a collapse in
storage prices. Some estimates suggest that Filecoin could easily offer prices
between $1 and $10 per TB per month or lower, depending on the number of times
the user chooses to replicate the data and the number of users offering
storage. Sia, which automatically replicates files, currently costs between
$0.50 to $2 per TB per month. Neither of these protocols has reached critical
mass or achieved true market equilibrium. We expect that in a few years time,
prices will continue to decrease. None of the estimates available today about
cloud storage account for a massive price collapse, and are therefore overly
optimistic about growth projections.

As Joey Krug [explains](https://www.forbes.com/sites/joeykrug/2017/08/18/why-
amazons-margin-is-filecoins-opportunity/#64df728024dd "Why Amazon's Margin Is
Filecoin's Opportunity"), “Amazon’s margin is Filecoin’s opportunity.” He
outlines how the dynamic market pricing models offered by these protocols
could allow blockchain-based storage providers to significantly undercut
Amazon. Prices would continue to collapse as more storage providers entered
the market. It’s rational to assume that many will since these protocols allow
for users to monetize storage space that would otherwise sit idle.

 **Conclusion**

The decentralized cloud storage market is unlikely to be a winner-take-all
scenario. Filecoin may capture something like 85% of that market for
decentralized storage, but that still leaves room for other protocols to cater
to specific niches. Network effects are minimal beyond a certain level of
scale. Unused hardware is already a sunk cost for most users, so there is no
supply side “scale” that should lead to lower prices. Moreover, storage
suppliers will gravitate to the market with the highest prices. If demand
materially exceeds supply in any of these distributed storage markets, prices
will increase, causing suppliers to shift to networks where they can earn more
profit. Because these protocols are open and permissionless, 3rd parties will
build utilities that monitor prices and automatically shift suppliers between
networks to maximize profits. This will have the effect of equalizing prices
across networks through negative feedback cycles. Analogous tools are
available today for mining. It’s likely that prices will equalize across all
of these platforms over time. The less-popular protocols won’t die off
completely, but they will likely experience little price growth.

Filecoin is currently the project most likely to succeed, and we expect that
it will come to own a significant share of the cloud storage market. Other
protocols may offer better services for specific use cases, and will likely be
competitive on price. The addition of decentralized protocols to the cloud
storage market will likely cause prices to collapse; asset valuations in the
space must take that into account. Other factors like token velocity, ease of
use, and market timing and should also be considered.

We are excited about the possibilities offered by decentralized cloud
protocols to reshape core parts of Internet infrastructure and application
delivery, and we think they are one of the most interesting uses of blockchain
technology. We look forward to watching the ecosystem evolve over time as
these teams bring these technologies to market.

+ Show More

[Read NextBitcoin is Better than Digital Gold ](/2017/09/21/bitcoin-better-
digital-gold/)

![Kyle
Samani](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/4OF6ywwNnbQLmD5qsIQ9kF/29aa033b59f51bc65fff3729e6948fe4/kyle_samani__2_.jpg)

By [Kyle Samani](/about#225b2112-7be1-5fc9-8755-db7e245ba5a5)

[@kylesamani](https://twitter.com/KyleSamani)

More Tags

[Writing](/blog/category/blog/)[Featured](/blog/category/featured/)[Podcasts](/podcasts/)[Videos](/videos/)

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER FOR THE BEST INSIGHTS IN CRYPTO

[![phoenix](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/72L5sEuJXOA7PvWBZM540E/27909d6ff5cda80158665ca43514b11c/phoenix_logo_white.svg)Subscribe](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)

* * *

  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)

  * [Podcasts](/podcasts/)
  * [Videos](/videos/)
  * [Subscribe](https://multicoin.capital/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

### GET IN TOUCH

We’re always looking for compelling ideas, business, and partnership
opportunities. We also enjoy reading your feedback. If you’re submitting a
business proposal, please include a clear description and any resources that
could help us evaluate your opportunity.

[hello@multicoin.capital](mailto:hello@multicoin.capital)

* * *

![Multicoin
Capital](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

## Multicoin Capital

©2017-2021 Multicoin Capital. All Rights Reserved.

