[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![The Emergence](/static/36f27686f8846e09b5259cdbc6882b2f/2a43b/trippy-space-
background.jpg)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

## The Emergence

By [Mihai Alisie](/blog/author/mihai-alisie/)

·

February 10, 2018

[Read this post on
AKASHA](https://beta.akasha.world/#/0x992731dd179fae6eb903e7f80050aeb32cc19515/0x99ff9173542abbb070e6c38b4187048d30b7af1967ce3fda63b2f0de7fbc5bb6)

Today marks the 927th day **A.E.** also known on planet Earth as 2 years, 6
months and 12 days **A** fter **E** thereum. Five million blocks after its
[Genesis](https://etherscan.io/block/0), the Ethereum ecosystem evolved into a
planetary Community with [hundreds of thousands of
people](https://www.meetup.com/topics/ethereum/) connected by a constellation
of projects and teams working on their
[dreams](https://www.stateofthedapps.com/). It makes you wonder where the next
5 million blocks will take us.

It is _still early_ , but the network effects can be felt already.

It's no coincidence that Ethereum is the world's first blockchain smashing
through the **1 million transactions per day** milestone, securing in the
process more value transacted per day (in USD) than all the other blockchains
[**combined**](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/7qckfb/the_ethereum_blockchain_now_processes_about_as/?st=jcf2hmxn&sh=c6d27e15).
And that's without taking in consideration all the [ERC-20 token
transactions](https://coinmarketcap.com/tokens/).

Moreover, when we look at the bigger [Ethereum
2.0](https://bitcoinmagazine.com/articles/ethereum-killer-ethereum-20-vitalik-
buterins-roadmap/) picture we can expect continuous, accelerated growth
towards infinity. Or the singularity.

Who knows? :)

[ ![AKASHA](/static/16efb1e04f03584d291d94dea965d97e/fcda8/ethereum-
transactions.png) ](/static/16efb1e04f03584d291d94dea965d97e/ffaa5/ethereum-
transactions.png)

We can already glance the potential ecosystem advancements develop and try our
best to guess the impact one discovery can have in the bigger picture for
everyone -- think, for example, [Proof of
Stake](https://github.com/ethereum/casper), [Plasma
Chains](https://github.com/omisego/plasma-mvp),
[Sharding](https://github.com/ethereum/sharding), [State
Channels](https://github.com/raiden-network/raiden/) and [zk-
SNARKs](https://z.cash/blog/ethereum-snarks.html).

However, if we look at the number of tools and communication channels used by
Ethereum-based projects, we can conclude that the inter-project communication
and cross-team collaboration at ecosystem level is **heavily fragmented**. A
forum [there](https://ethresear.ch/), a subreddit
[here](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum/), a Slack/Discord/Rocket channel
[elsewhere](https://www.reddit.com/r/aragonproject/comments/7858u5/update_status_of_the_projects_migrating_to_rocket/).

This is not ideal, especially when considering the main Ethereum value
proposition - **[synergy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synergy)**. The
situation we find ourselves today is understandable on one side because each
project needed something working and ready to use "yesterday" (we use Discord
currently), but when thinking about "tomorrow", things get more complicated.

The drawbacks become more visible when figuring out that **the economics of
synergy also apply to ecosystem-wide shared challenges**. Consider for a
minute how different the crypto landscape would look if the projects sharing
common challenges realize that by coming together they **maximize the chances
of success for everyone**.

Some might even argue this is the only way we can reach the next level of
understanding necessary to **crack the hardest crypto challenges of our
times**. They might be right.

Time will tell.

In this vast ocean of uncertainty, the only certain thing is that _we 're
still in the early days_ of this adventure and there is absolutely no
guarantee of success for _anyone_ in the crypto world. In fact, the odds are
against us since **the entire blockchain space is a big experiment**.

But what if we can collectively increase our chances of success by even 1%?
Wouldn't that make it worthwhile enough to encourage more communication and
collaboration between projects?

After all, once these innovations will be available they will most likely
diffuse throughout the ecosystem at record rates. And, given enough time,
these advancements can crystallize into the perfect environment for
mainstream-grade dapps.

That is when Web 3.0 can fulfill its mission of a better Web in service of
humanity and when **[real
change](https://blog.akasha.world/2016/05/03/unveiling-akasha/)** is within
reach.

That is when things will get " ** _serious_** ".

With this in mind, we hope that people and projects from around the world will
find in AKASHA a way to (re)connect and **unleash the potential** already
present, but currently dormant.

If the Ethereum ecosystem is imagined as a synergistic organism, we see
[AKASHA](https://akasha.world/) as its natural nervous tissue connecting
people, ideas and projects in the context of a **crypto renaissance salon**.
The cradle of a modern renaissance so vast in its implications that no one
understands its full ramifications yet.

Amazingly, with your help, we were able to make the first steps towards this
vision, and we proved together this future is **possible** with the [AKASHA
alpha dapp](https://blog.akasha.world/2017/01/16/into-the-ether/).

If in the alpha dapp we caught a glimpse at the possibilities, it's now time
to go further down the rabbit hole. Those that want to jump straight to the
beta dapp download links can scroll to the bottom of the entry, but you might
want to take a couple of minutes to read through.

Either way, we hope you will enjoy it! \o/

#### Main Mission: Pushing The Limits

In the alpha dapp we began by testing if **a truly decentralized social media
network** built on Ethereum and IPFS is viable on a technological level.
Thanks to the thousands of people drawn together by this idea, the alpha
experiment was a [**resounding
success**](https://blog.akasha.world/2017/05/03/akasha-odyssey-year-one/).

Moving forward, one of the main goals of the beta dapp is to stress test the
infrastructure and see how far can we take it. From this perspective, we could
choose the number of users as a metric with 1K, 5K, 10K ... 100K+ as
milestones. These tests will all come down to how much transactional output a
decentralized social network with many users generate, and how well the
Ethereum and IPFS networks can take it.

[ ![AKASHA](/static/4e3dc49db68421cfc3083fe783e7fc3c/1c72d/ethereum-
meetups-2015.jpg) ](/static/4e3dc49db68421cfc3083fe783e7fc3c/4c6a6/ethereum-
meetups-2015.jpg)

Even if the 100K milestone might seem crazy, the current biggest Ethereum
communities are sizeable - for example, there are over 730K [Ethereum
meetups](https://www.meetup.com/topics/ethereum/) participants,
[r/ethereum/](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum/) has over 310K readers and
[r/ethtrader/](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethtrader/) has over 170K readers.

[ ![AKASHA](/static/865353ef260c78df989162559e8d4a6f/1c72d/ethereum-
metupsss.jpg) ](/static/865353ef260c78df989162559e8d4a6f/30a9d/ethereum-
metupsss.jpg)

Very likely there is some overlap between the two subreddits and the meetup
participants, but the main idea is that **we are MANY and we can gather as a
Community to stress test Ethereum itself, collectively learning and improving
it in the process**.

With this in mind, we invite everyone to join us in the beta because we need
help with:

  * Stress testing the new smart contracts architecture and security
  * Stress testing the carrying capacity of the Ethereum network and blockchain
  * Stress testing the carrying capacity of the IPFS network
  * Testing our [first crypto economic assumptions & incentives structures](https://blog.akasha.world/2017/11/14/new-horizons/)
  * Testing the new information architecture and UX/UI
  * [Collecting feedback](https://github.com/akashaproject/dapp/issues) and formulating the main Ethereum chain deployment plan

If we can uncover insights and answers to questions such as " _How far can we
push things?_ ", " _Should we actively engage the Ethereum mining community
for raising the gas limits in anticipation of the main chain deployment?_ "
and " _What would be the gas limit that allows AKASHA and the entire Ethereum
ecosystem to comfortably coexist on the same chain?_ " we think that we'll be
well on our way to a successful launch - for **everyone**.

Furthermore, we believe that continuous experimentation is the key to
discovering new services and features we cannot even imagine at this point.
Some could reinvent whole industries and business models. Others will fail
miserably, and we will learn something new in the process.

We embrace this trial-and-error mindset and invite everyone to join us in this
new [odyssey of discovery](https://blog.akasha.world/2017/05/03/akasha-
odyssey-year-one/)!

#### AKASHA Emergence Highlights

After a year of hard work on multiple layers - from smart contracts to the
user interface and everything between - we reached the stage of a functional
**beta dapp**.

The first wave of invites was sent as a Christmas present to the first people
that signed up for the beta. Since then, we have come far. Thanks to the
contributions and feedback coming from these early pioneers we have released
two iterations adding features and fixing bugs in the past month.

The result of all this takes the shape of the latest AKASHA beta release named
**Emergence**!

[ ![AKASHA](/static/7840da25b6ad1871e3ff0fcee838ae6c/fcda8/sync-2.png)
](/static/7840da25b6ad1871e3ff0fcee838ae6c/ad1ae/sync-2.png)

For the alpha veterans, one of the most striking differences will be the UI &
UX redesign. This is an ongoing effort, started in the spring of 2017, seeking
to create an effortless way for user to interact with Ethereum and IPFS.

[ ![AKASHA](/static/edc3ae28859fde326c516115bc37327c/1c72d/dashboard-1.jpg)
](/static/edc3ae28859fde326c516115bc37327c/b91f3/dashboard-1.jpg)

In the alpha we wanted to test if the idea of an Ethereum+IPFS based social
network is possible. However, in the beta, we aimed higher fueled by the
knowledge gathered in the first experimentation stage.

The user view when navigating content is now thought as a modular and
customizable dashboard. The "boards" allow the users to organize various
topics while "columns" can take the shape of a stream from the people you
follow, a particular tag or a specific person.

[ ![AKASHA](/static/4ed393fe66183f2f77695b154eb77eb2/1c72d/dashboard-2.jpg)
](/static/4ed393fe66183f2f77695b154eb77eb2/eface/dashboard-2.jpg)

Say hello to the dark theme.

[ ![AKASHA](/static/46129da4ddd3c1ca9828fc3d70526852/1c72d/etherscan-1a.jpg)
](/static/46129da4ddd3c1ca9828fc3d70526852/81043/etherscan-1a.jpg)

Another big difference when compared to the alpha, is that the AKASHA smart
contracts now live on the Ethereum Rinkeby test network. In other words, every
single post, comment or vote can be seen as a transaction on etherscan.

[ ![AKASHA](/static/195222b834b299505e4098099425cccf/fcda8/etherscan-2.png)
](/static/195222b834b299505e4098099425cccf/9c2cf/etherscan-2.png)

In the alpha, we experimented with multiple identity approaches, including our
own identity registrar. Since we now live on a public network, we can begin to
leverage the integrations - ENS being the first of the many that will follow.
ENS powered subdomains will be coming soon, most likely with the AKASHA Web
version.

[ ![AKASHA](/static/cd87fc01474b52db4cc53a9fead485a4/fcda8/identity.png)
](/static/cd87fc01474b52db4cc53a9fead485a4/1ddef/identity.png)

More features waiting to be explored are lists for curating your favorite
posts, highlights for curating your favorite paragraphs, a dual wallet
(AETH/ETH) that allows users to test the multi-state architecture of our first
token iteration and **many more**.

[ ![AKASHA](/static/a34b79e5489f093ba15a1358de0f0620/1c72d/aeth-wallet.jpg)
](/static/a34b79e5489f093ba15a1358de0f0620/eface/aeth-wallet.jpg)

We're looking forward to hearing your thoughts!

#### Special Thanks

[ ![AKASHA](/static/4703d7fa95e038d0748173191b0ee192/1c72d/internet-high5.jpg)
](/static/4703d7fa95e038d0748173191b0ee192/ec631/internet-high5.jpg)

A big thank you to all the alpha veterans and early beta testers for helping
us reach this milestone. It took many experiments to get where we are today,
and you shaped the course of this project through your involvement - we
learned so much thanks to you!

On this note, BIG UPS and kudos also for Marius Darila, Sever Abibula, Bogdan
Brezuica, Roxana Sureanu, Valentin Cotea, Sebastian Rodriguez, Lorenzo
Patuzzo, Mariana Gomes, and the entire AKASHA team for turning what looked at
times like a handful of people with big dreams into a working dapp on
blockchainz - again. **Respect.**

Special thanks go to Peter Szilagyi (@karalabe) for the bug fixes and
improvements on the Go Ethereum client side such as [full event subscription
support in abigen](https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/wiki/Native-
DApps:-Go-bindings-to-Ethereum-contracts#go-binding-generator), the help
provided when deploying our smart contracts on the Rinkeby test network and
the many GitHub issues reporting bugs in the early beta releases.

[ ![AKASHA](/static/880a148abaaf315017de51912699c0fc/fcda8/karalabe-1.png)
](/static/880a148abaaf315017de51912699c0fc/f3015/karalabe-1.png)

And, to top it off, Peter created a [restful HTTP API for
AKASHA](https://github.com/karalabe/akasha-gateway) during the winter holidays
- imagine all the Christmassy magic packed inside those bytes. Thank you,
Peter, you're a star! :)

[ ![AKASHA](/static/64f2f9370b6aa60987ba1efdc2b400f5/fcda8/karalabe-2.png)
](/static/64f2f9370b6aa60987ba1efdc2b400f5/b8765/karalabe-2.png)

Many thanks also go to Jeromy Johnson, David Dias, Dominic Della Valle and
Juan Benet from IPFS & Protocol Labs for all the support and help to get
things rolling for the beta.

And of course, a warm thanks to **YOU** for taking the time to read this post
and play with the dapp!

#### Beta Pioneer Instructions

[ ![AKASHA](/static/edc0f46e6ee02062ee4d07d3cbf6adbf/1c72d/pioneer-1.jpg)
](/static/edc0f46e6ee02062ee4d07d3cbf6adbf/d9c39/pioneer-1.jpg)

Before jumping into the ether, beware: **this is pioneering at its best, and
through your involvement, you are all pioneers**. Since this is a beta, it
comes with all the instability associated with early experiments - just as the
first flight attempts were not necessarily safe or comfortable.

Failures, glitches, and random errors **should be expected**.

Just as with the alpha, we see this beta release as a humble starting point on
top of which we can iterate and improve with you, the Community. **In the
current form, AKASHA is for the curious minds who don 't mind occasional bugs
and understand that through their involvement, they can shape what this
project will become.**

And now, the brave ones are invited to jump _Into the Ether_!

#### Instructions For Windows Pioneers:

  * Download the [.exe installer](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases/download/0.6.2/AKASHA.Setup.0.6.2.exe) or the [.zip archive](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases/download/0.6.2/AKASHA-0.6.2-win.zip) from our [official beta GitHub repo](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases/tag/0.6.2)
  * Run the installer or extract the files contained in the .zip file
  * Open the AKASHA dapp and synchronize with the network
  * Create or [import](https://akasha.helpscoutdocs.com/article/16-how-to-migrate-accounts) an AKASHA identity (profile)
  * Log in and enjoy AKASHA

#### Instructions For Mac Pioneers:

  * Download the [.dmg installer](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases/download/0.6.2/AKASHA-0.6.2.dmg) or the [.zip archive](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases/download/0.6.2/AKASHA-0.6.2-mac.zip) from our [official beta GitHub repo](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases/tag/0.6.2)
  * Run the installer or extract the files contained in the .zip file
  * Open the AKASHA dapp and synchronize with the network
  * Create or [import](https://akasha.helpscoutdocs.com/article/16-how-to-migrate-accounts) an AKASHA identity (profile)
  * Log in and enjoy AKASHA

#### Instructions For Linux Pioneers:

  * Download the [.deb installer](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases/download/0.6.2/AKASHA_0.6.2_amd64.deb), [.AppImage](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases/download/0.6.2/AKASHA-0.6.2-x86_64.AppImage) or the [.zip archive](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases/download/0.6.2/AKASHA-0.6.2.zip) from our [official beta GitHub repo](https://github.com/AkashaProject/dapp/releases/tag/0.6.2)
  * Run the installer or extract the files contained in the .zip file
  * Open the AKASHA dapp and synchronize with the network
  * Create or [import](https://akasha.helpscoutdocs.com/article/16-how-to-migrate-accounts) an AKASHA identity (profile)
  * Log in and enjoy AKASHA

Linux users can also install the dap via [snapcraft](https://snapcraft.io/) by
running `snap install --classic akasha` (full permissions) or `snap install
akasha`(strict mode). To update an existing snap install, run `snap refresh
akasha`.

**See you in the new world of AKASHA! \o/**

Next time, hopefully, we will have the conversation on the AKASHA Web version.
In the meantime, while you sync, feel free to [join the conversation on
reddit!](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/7wmfr8/the_akasha_emergence_decentralized_social_network/)
:)

[ ![AKASHA](/static/775eee9103eafddf352acd8a853300c2/0246a/2_intro_akasha.jpg)
](/static/775eee9103eafddf352acd8a853300c2/0246a/2_intro_akasha.jpg)

**Important notes:**

  1. **Please do not send ETH to anyone claiming that AKASHA has an ICO or a pre-sale. If/when an AKASHA "ICO" will be conducted we will announce it on all our official channels. If anyone claims that there is an ongoing AKASHA sale/private-sale/ICO but you can't find anything about it on our official channels ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/AKASHAworld), [Discord](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ), the AKASHA dapp, etc) you can safely assume that it is a SCAM. Stay safe and thank you for being part of this project!**

  2. **Do not download/install AKASHA from other users or websites and always verify the digital signature of the dapp. The digital signature should display AKASHA International GmbH.**

  3. **Do not send real ETH (ether) to your in-dapp addresses. The dapp works with test ETH and is currently deployed on a test network. But don 't worry, we got your back - you will receive test ETH and test AETH tokens when creating your account.**

  4. **The Ethereum Rinkeby test network blockchain needs ~3GB of diskspace in "Normal Sync", around ~500MB in "Light Sync" and should take about ~30 minutes. The Web version (coming soon) will not need to sync as it will rely on Metamask for the blockchain interactions**

  5. **Please be aware that this is a beta and by no means a final product. We expect AKASHA to evolve a lot in the first years and we see you, the Community, as the main source of this evolution. Thank you for your understanding!**

[News](/blog/category/news/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2018/02/10/akasha-
beta-emergence)

