[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![The Number 1 Challenge for Humanity - Cooperating at Scale, Part
1](/static/d788a3a8f4592ed2bff547893becf40a/2a43b/header.jpg)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

## The Number 1 Challenge for Humanity - Cooperating at Scale, Part 1

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

·

July 24, 2020

 ** _Part 1 of 2_**

Despite the over-emphasis of competition in Darwin's theory of evolution, the
great man himself sensed the importance of cooperation.

> I should premise that I use the term Struggle for Existence in a large and
> metaphorical sense, including dependence of one being on another ...

_[On the Origin of Species, Darwin, 1859]_

Modern day scientists know that any investment of resources by individuals —
of the same species or different — in acts of cooperation could in fact make
those individuals vulnerable to non-cooperators, and yet cooperating proves to
be a continuing strength rather than a weakness. We see cooperation everywhere
we look.

> [We have] a new view of continual cooperation, strong interaction, and
> mutual dependence among life forms. Life did not take over the globe by
> combat, but by networking.

_[[Microcosmos](https://www.worldcat.org/title/microcosmos-four-billion-years-
of-evolution-from-our-microbial-ancestors/oclc/1123954997), Margulis & Sagan,
1997]_

Cooperation confers an irrefutable advantage and we're still grappling with
understanding the qualities of the mechanisms that make this the case.

Human beings are brilliant same-species cooperators — hence our parasitic
success — and yet a quick scan of typical news headlines would suggest quite
the opposite. Without dwelling too deeply on international relations or indeed
media theory, the reported character of interactions between the likes of the
United States and China and Russia and India and Europe might be said to be
more fractious than cooperative. And national news headlines compound the
gloom.

# Why?

Why can't we just work together for mutual advantage on our little [blue
marble](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Blue_Marble)? As co-pilots of
[Spaceship Earth](https://www.bfi.org/about-fuller/big-ideas/spaceshipearth)?

Self-evidently, we're not yet well-practiced at cooperating at national scale
let alone global, if only perhaps because there has been no evolutionary
advantage in developing such capacity. Our technologies exacerbate problems at
macro scale while connecting and virtualizing and dividing us. Take our
interaction right here right now. I've written this and you're reading it.
There are no atoms in transit. There's no physical proximity. No direct
relationship — indeed we may never meet IRL. And yet we can still choose to
cooperate on Web 3.0 stuff. And we will. But while it may have the illusion of
familiarity, this is to all extents and purposes unreal!

In the evolutionary context, cooperation is for family units, villages, and
tribes. Maybe in cohorts approximating 150 in number _[[Neocortex size as a
constraint on group size in
primates](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/004724849290081J),
Dunbar, 1992],_ in geographic proximity and the context of the local
environment with all senses firing, and with the age-old conditions for
indirect reciprocity (Claire scratches Bhavna's back because she saw Bhavna
scratching Alice's).

Abstract away these familiar fundamentals and we're too often left sharing cat
gifs and dick pics, surveilling each other and spreading fake news. Our
collective mastery of the technology is analogous to a prehistoric people
using 60-inch TVs for beds and cave doors.

And yet here we are, the very first species that we know of needing to
cooperate at global scale to rise up to some very serious challenges
manifesting at global scale. This is an existential matter ... which is a posh
way to say we're all in a deep pile of shit if we don't sort this out
together. As a fundamental means to some fundamental ends, cooperating-at-
scale is humanity's primary challenge. There are 17 sustainable development
goals (SDGs), and the word _cooperation_ is mentioned 23 times in [the
corresponding United Nations
resolution](https://www.un.org/en/development/desa/population/migration/generalassembly/docs/globalcompact/A_RES_70_1_E.pdf).

Our technologies are very much more adaptable than we are (evolution operates
through very many generations, not within the one or two we have to respond
here). Perhaps this is why some notable parts of the tech community find it
too hard to resist the temptations of techno-solutionism — the dream that tech
can solve all of our problems _[[To Save Everything, Click
Here](https://www.worldcat.org/title/to-save-everything-click-here-smart-
machines-dumb-humans-and-the-myth-of-tecnological-
perfectionism/oclc/843432211), Morozov, 2013]_.

But resist we must for the very fact that you and your family, your
communities and our societies, cannot adapt to such prescriptions in ways that
preserve let alone amplify our humanity. To attempt as much transforms each of
us from subject to object to abject _[[(Why) Technology is Costing Us
Agency](https://eand.co/why-technology-is-costing-us-agency-24cefc84a751),
Haque, 2019]_.

Rather, we have to proceed on the basis that humanity is a feature not a bug.
We must work towards a future in which we participate as nature rather than
continue to consider ourselves separate from it, or worse, above it. We must
learn quickly to cooperate at scale — within our own species and alongside
other species.

The AKASHA team does not see itself as a bunch of technologists because a
bunch of technologists would fail. We must be sociotechnologists. We dedicate
ourselves to the inseparable interweave of human beings and digital
technologies, of human cultures and digital ecosystems. The technologies must
increase the agency of the individual — through and over her technologies. And
the technologically augmented individual must also find herself achieving
still greater agency embedded within cooperative groups, and cooperative
groups of cooperative groups. Such collective agency is integral to the
potential realization of collective intelligences with the deepest respect for
human dignity.

The AKASHA World Framework strives to help set this up in its own small way.
Most fortunately, by definition, whatever version 1.0 might look like down the
road, it must not aspire to do it all. (Which is just as well!)

Rather, it experiments with taking the cryptonetworking primitives fundamental
to Ethereum, and similar technologies, and elevating them into some forms of
'sociotechnological primitives' — social + technological assemblages — that
can be combined and recombined, forked and merged and forked again, to suit
local social and bioregional contexts in global harmony.

While our once-every-few-years-elected representatives continue to antagonize
each other, the rest of us can work together towards working together. By
realizing cooperative self-governance, we can establish the necessary patterns
to reinforce cooperative self-governance at all scales, celebrating and
channeling difference as requisite to the collective intelligences needed to
nurture regenerative ways of living.

In the second of this two-part blog, I'll outline some concepts and the pre-
architectural principles that are likely to be in the mix. We think they're OK
if only because we're riffing off lots of many wonderful people's wonderful
insights. We know they might only prove useful in cooperation with you and
yours.

[Check out part 2 of this 2-part
series](https://akasha.org/blog/2020/08/07/cooperating-at-scale-part-two)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2020/07/24/cooperating-
at-scale-part-one)

