[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# The Broken DeFi Hypecycle

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

The Broken DeFi Hypecycle

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Jamie-Burke-Hi-
Res-150x150.png)

September 2020

Posted by

Jamie Burke

CEO and Founder

 ...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/jamie-burke/)

### In this series I propose we are a year into a 5 year long ‘DeFi Hype
Cycle’, likely made up of several mini-cycles, where the aggregate effect is a
quadrupling of today's combined market cap and a doubling of the 2017 $600bn
highs based on a sustained ‘mainstreaming’ of the industry.

#### In fact, it's not impossible we hit that in the next 24 months alone
should a few things fall into place. So now I’ve got your attention let me
explain how across three posts. This is post (1/3)

  1. #### **The Broken DeFi Hype Cycle**

  2. #### [Retail DeFi: DeFi + NFTs](https://outlierventures.io/research/defi-nfts-post/)

  3. #### [Institutional DeFi: **NFTs, DIDs, AEAs, dPrime & ETFs**](https://outlierventures.io/research/defi-2-0-innovations-for-institutional-adoption/)

## [Download as a report ](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/09/OV-DEFI-2.0-Q3-2020.pdf)

###

Posted by Jamie Burke - September 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Jamie-Burke-Hi-
Res-150x150.png)

September 2020

Posted by

Jamie Burke

CEO and Founder

 ...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/jamie-burke/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

### The power of DeFi

Simply put, DeFi is an extension of Andreessen’s ‘software eating the world’.

In this case, the ‘digitisation’ and ‘decentralisation’ of commerce: both in a
capital markets context & commerce of all types, including its subsets like
ecommerce.

The last decade 2010 to 2020 has created a software layer for the internet
capable of creating (minting), storing, moving around, lending & borrowing,
digitally scarce, programmable value with minimal intermediation. Centralised
exchanges and wallets (aka CeFi) being the minimal mediation layer which
improves accessibility and abstracts technically complex administration and
custody, but most importantly acts as a gateway (for distribution) for new
demand to enter the system.

Unlike the current financial system; DeFi is a bottom up, open source,
permissionless, environment based on ‘hyper competition’ which seeks
equilibrium between Yield vs Efficiency. At face value that might look like a
paradox, and has been called ‘The DeFi Paradox’. However, I propose this is
only true if the ecosystem is not fundamentally growing: bringing in either
more collateral (supply) but also more liquidity (demand) and closing the
loop.

When both of those things happen it kicks starts a ‘hype cycle’ (proper) like
we saw with ICOs in 2017. If we reflect back on that period it is well
understood it was as a consequence of the combined innovation triggers of:

**The ERC20 crowdfunding mechanism (Supply) + CEX centralised crypto exchanges
(Demand).**

Now it's worth stating upfront people like to put CeFi like CEXs (the minimum
mediation layer described above) at odds with DeFi. But in fact they are
synergistic if we are to grow the capital and usage of the system: in that
DeFi needs CeFi and CeFi needs DeFi and each should be considered one part of
the same thing. The only distinction being CeFi is how DeFi interfaces with
the existing financial system as it is and associated regulators. It's where
most new demand enters from and where users happily pay a fee for a bundling
of services and legal accountability should something go wrong. This last
point is incredibly important to the majority of people.

### Anatomy of a Hype Cycle vs a Broken Cycle

Firstly, it's worth stating many people assume ‘hype cycles’ are a net bad
thing but historically they are when an open capital market forms around an
innovation it tries to price, which in the end it always overvalues.
Eventually resulting in a sharp correction, which in turn kills hype.

As an open permissionless capital market this seems to be an intrinsic part of
innovation in crypto. It's how innovation in the space gets financed; albeit
in a seemingly capital inefficient way, but it works, or at the least it's the
best we’ve got.

![The Broken DeFi Hypecycle Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/09/Screen-Shot-2020-09-24-at-10.57.55.png) __

Often hype cycles are more generally, historically triggered by combinations
of innovations as described above; some old, some new, but often put together
in a new and timely way.

During the first half of this year everybody (including me) believed that
there would be a major DeFi hype cycle and bull run in 2020 but it somehow
stalled; what should be regarded as a ‘broken cycle’. It took me a while to
connect the dots but if you follow the logic laid out above in retrospect it's
easy to see why and hypothesise what would be required for a DeFi hype cycle
‘proper’.

**So how did it start and why was it incomplete?**

**Innovations: Stablecoins (Supply) + Yield-Generating Protocols (Supply)**

Innovations in yield-generating protocols that were ‘farmed’, such as lending,
fees, liquidity mining triggered a short period of crazy gains for a small
subset of crypto. However, only roughly less than 5% of tokens were staked and
they were owned by an even smaller subset of the global crypto population for
reasons we will unpack later. So in effect not only was it self-sustained
within crypto itself, but by a very small subset of it.

In summary, it effectively created a new form of supply, without the new
demand required to sustain it. And because it wasn’t linked to any sustainable
income of any sort instead it just created an artificial recycling of gains.
Without any new liquidity entering the system this aggressive form of user
acquisition (when thought of in a marketing context) turned out to be a
protracted ‘game of chicken’ based on what was typically over leveraged
trading positions based on assumptions about yield, that at a systematic level
was ultimately unsustainable. Because most importantly it did not achieve the
levels of hype to cross over into the mainstream and bring in new demand from
new participants to trigger a wider and sustained bull run.

![The Broken DeFi Hypecycle Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/09/Untitled-1.jpg)

### What's required for a DeFi Hype Cycle Proper?

**What worked?**

Whilst broken, or at least incomplete, the last cycle did reveal the power of
a new supply side innovation - DeFi is essentially building a new financial
system from the ground up. Decentralised automated market makers (AMMs) and
liquidity pools provide an alternative to professional market makers, order
books and clearing facilities. Flash loans offer unprecedented arbitrage and
trading capabilities.

This means debt and leverage are traded freely, in a permissionless
environment, putting capital to work in incredible ways. And on top of it all
experiments in governance and new forms of coordination mechanisms for its
participants, what you would unavoidably call, ‘digital equity’:

**A digital right to Interest (Yield) + Governance***

and demonstrated in this particular application; the ability to quickly
bootstrap the liquidity of a network for borrowing and lending.

_*Now it is worth saying at this point if this sounds a lot like classic
equity it 's because it is. And its long-term success is dependent on its ‘net
market outcome’, once regulators finally catch up (which if ICOs are anything
to go on will be a 2-3 year window). _

By ‘net market outcome’; I mean the degree to which its ‘hyper competition’
has become unavoidably successful in bringing about efficiency and competition
for consumers vs any malpractice when compared to the current financial
system. If it fails to properly mainstream and make a significant positive
impact for the consumer, today’s ‘DeFi premium’ will become a ‘DeFi discount’
as regulators begin to enforce action. At least to the extent they can.
Leading to a clumsy cat and mouse game between regulators and the market which
will both momentarily constrain the hype cycle and then amplify it when its
unstoppable nature is reinforced: hence the prediction for a series of mini-
cycles aggregating up.

Some will argue regulators will never allow digital equity to be sold or used
by retail but the precedents of Bitcoin and Ethereum have shown innovations in
this permissionless environment if properly designed and executed, with
appropriate levels of censorship resistance and decentralisation, can
eventually be acceptable or unstoppable by the time regulators catch up.

Because of its composability and open source nature DeFi protocols can easily
be replaced or forked and increasingly its smarter founders are sufficiently
distanced or removed from day to day governance. Some choosing (and sadly some
abusing) anonymity.

When Programmable Privacy solutions such as The Secret Network begin to be
layered on top of DeFi, both the community members who build and govern the
protocol, but also the applications built on the protocol itself can choose
the degree of anonymity they want allowing for greater participation,
innovation and decentralization.

Furthermore, well distributed governance rights bearing instruments ironically
could make it harder for regulators to argue a network isn't sufficiently
decentralised.

**Its limitations**

But now if we go back to the reasons for DeFi 1.0’s limitations: This series
of supply side innovations when combined with stablecoins also arguably failed
to cross over because of maturity and ‘protocol fit’ constraints:

**Ethereum Fees + Complexity (Tech + Risk*)**

_*This last point is because of the complexity of the DeFi stack’s
composability, something well articulated here as_[ _‘Deep
DeFi’_](https://medium.com/@hugoatmarshall/the-two-distinct-worlds-of-defi-
and-how-retail-investors-are-losing-out-70fc8e33b374?source=social.tw) _by Key
Tango’s Dan Danay._

**What 's missing DeFi + NFTs?**

In the following series I will argue there are both several Supply and Demand
Side (near to mid term) innovations coming to market that remove many of these
technical or economic constraints (fully or partially) and when they do it
promises to take the handbrake off in DeFi and allow a series of, likely mini,
hype cycles that could well aggregate into a meta cycle and subsequently a
major 12 to 18 month bull run.

Perhaps the most immediate being NFTs (Non Fungible Tokens) as mechanism to
reward loyalty and discourage highly promiscuous and unsustainable yield
hunting leading, with its race to the bottom economics and ‘vampire attacks’
[(well documented here)](https://thedefiant.substack.com/p/sushiswaps-vampire-
scheme-hours-away), where DeFi protocols are aggressively forked, new short
term incentives added and liquidity quickly lost.

Importantly these hype cycles, unlike the first broken one, should
successfully bring in two new types of demand from distinct types of
participants: broken down into two separate articles as Retail (2/3) &
Institutional (3/3) and with them respective liquidity, each with their own
prerequisites that first must be met.

## [Download as a report](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/09/OV-DEFI-2.0-Q3-2020.pdf)

### Next in series:

[2\. Retail DeFi: DeFi + NFTs ](https://outlierventures.io/research/defi-nfts-
post/)

3\. Institutional DeFi: AI Lego, STOs & dPrime

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

