[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/75cc48fda352&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderUser&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![The
LAO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/2*X_8LYIcePYE1DMhi8vcHFw.png)](/@thelaoofficial?source=post_page
-----75cc48fda352--------------------------------)

[The LAO](/@thelaoofficial?source=post_page-----
75cc48fda352--------------------------------)

Follow

Apr 21, 2020

·

6 min read

#  **The LAO Scout: Launching a token curated registry to crowdsource the best
blockchain projects**

 _The LAO releases a token curated registry,_[ _The LAO
Scout_](http://scout.thelao.io) _, to enable the Ethereum and blockchain
community to quickly identify and signal to The LAO projects to fund._

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/960/0*PxCJrdbHubWmcLCw)

We learned with Web2 the power of networks. Social networks like Twitter and
Reddit brought communities together around the globe, creating digital,
intellectual coffeehouses that have transformed the way news and information
are disseminated. As we move into the era of Web 3, the ability to create and
deploy networks is only getting easier and will continue to expand into other
areas of the economy, including venture capital and finance.

Indeed, the next and natural progression of virtual coffeehouses will not just
include the swapping of links and information but will include the pooling of
capital and the creation and markets to help inchoate groups of people online
formalize their relationship and impact the world around them.

At its logical endpoint, that is the hope and opportunity for DAOs. Bringing
people together not just to share information but to make a difference. And, a
significant step in the evolution of DAOs is launching these organizations in
the US in a way that complies with existing law.

That is the hope and the goal of [The LAO](http://thelao.io) — launching on
April 28 — an entirely novel, internet-native, DAO to fund innovative new
blockchain technology. We believe that DAOs will have a profound impact, as
they mature, on creating hyper-efficient and effective mechanisms to fund
entrepreneurs and innovation across the globe. They will help buidlers build,
and move blockchain technology beyond the era of hodling.

Historically, venture capital funds have generally relied on their network of
general partners and the projects that they fund to secure deal flow. The
funds with the best deal flow have tended to generate the best returns. That
said, networks of small groups of people are limited and as a result
traditional venture capital often overlooks incredible projects simply because
they aren’t sourced from their network. As a result, projects that have the
ability to improve people’s lives simply are not funded, because an
entrepreneur drew the wrong lottery ticket and was born outside the United
States or because they have a background that makes it difficult to join the
network of venture capital funds.

That can all change with DAOs, like the LAO. Sure, DAOs, through governance
and smart contracts can make funding a breeze, but one of the perhaps
unemphasized aspects is that we’re able to create participatory and democratic
means to sourcing and finding deals. One step in honing in on what the general
community foresees as a promising project or team is through the launch of
[LAO Scout](http://scout.thelao.io).

With the LAO, new startups can say goodbye to the days of doing the Sand Hill
Road jog. Founders can now spend time, energy and critical resources that
previously went to fundraising in the Valley and build instead. LAO Scout
creates a means to have organic, community-based projects signaling through a
well-worn medium that all crypto enthusiasts spend hours on (and know too
well): Twitter.

Right now, members of The LAO will have access to all those decks, financials
and growth data — but the intangible metrics, or the ‘je ne sais quoi’ of a
project, requires more sleuthing through the Internet and feeling out of
networks.

The Ethereum community does this better than anyone. That’s why we want to
unleash that community to help nominate and support projects they care about.

#  **Introducing LAO Scout**

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*93lgrEO-NsowbYBY5tItMg.png)

Screenshot of LAO Scout

LAO Scout (an extension of [TCR Party](http://tcr.party)) creates a curated
list of what crypto-twitter believes are the top new blockchain projects and
worthy of funding. This is a democratic way to determine which projects really
do have strong technology and the ability to execute based on what everyone
thinks.

The interface of LAO Scout is user friendly and built entirely within Twitter
itself — all interactions occur entirely within mentions and direct messages,
allowing users to focus on the exciting part: nominating the projects they
love and want to see funded. The Twitter community also has the ability to
challenge new projects they believe should not be on the list of top projects
to receive funding — making this ever-changing and dynamic.

All members of this project list will have their tweets automatically
retweeted by [@TheLAOScout](https://twitter.com/TheLAOScout) and can be
followed by anyone interested in being informed by the top projects in the
space.

##  **Getting Started**

To get started, simply follow
[**@TheLAOScoutBot**](https://twitter.com/TheLAOScoutBot) **and send a Tweet
like “Hey @TheLAOScoutBot let’s get started”** The bot will send you a DM with
further instructions to get you started.

We’ve also built the [LAO Scout Leaderboard](http://scout.thelao.io), which is
a place for the general community and LAO members the current status of the
projects. Here you’ll find a directory of all the projects who are on the
list, being nominated to join the list or have an open challenge against them
(which requires your vote!).

##  **Nominating a Project to the LAOScout Leaderboard**

You can vote to nominate a project via DM to the bot (just leave out the
mention) or publicly with the following command: **“@TheLAOScoutBot nominate
@ProjectHandleName”** Make sure you have enough tokens to nominate by checking
your balance with the “balance” command (via DM).

##  **Challenging a Project on the LAOScout Leaderboard**

At any point, you’d like to challenge a project, whether it’s during the
nomination period or after they are added to the list. The command is:
**“@TheLAOScoutBot challenge @ProjectHandleName”**

Make sure you have enough tokens to challenge by checking your balance with
the “balance” command. Make sure you have a sufficient amount of tokens by
typing “balance” in a DM to @TheLAOScoutBot. Next, find the handle of the user
you wish to vote for (or against), and tell the bot **“vote @ProjectHandleName
keep” or “vote @ProjectName kick.”** If all goes well the bot should message
you back letting you know that your transaction was submitted to the
blockchain.

## Increasing Your Vote Weight

By default, voting has a weight (strength) of 50 tokens. Vote weight refers to
how many tokens you’re putting behind your vote. A higher vote weight
strengthens either your kick or keep the position to ward off other projects.

## Additional Commands

Once you’ve registered with the bot and received your first distribution of
tokens, you can send direct messages to LAOScoutBot in order to nominate,
challenge, and vote on listings.

  *  **balance** — Returns the current balance in your wallet.
  *  **faucet** — Sends you 50 free LSCT per day!
  *  **nominate [handle]** — Nominates a Twitter handle to be on the list.
  *  **challenge [handle]** — Challenges a nomination or currently listing on the list.
  *  **status** — Responds with a status of each of the listings you’ve created, in addition to letting you know the status of your Twitter handle’s listing.
  *  **vote [handle] [kick/keep] [weight — default 50]** — Submits a vote for a currently open challenge against the given handle. Note that their handle and “kick” or “keep” are required, however a weight is not and is set to 50 by default. The maximum weight of your vote is determined by the number of tokens you currently have locked up for voting (see below).
  *  **vote-balance** — Returns the balance of tokens you currently have locked up for voting on challenges.
  *  **vote-deposit** — Allows you to lock up tokens for voting on challenges, therefore increasing the maximum weight you can place on your votes.
  *  **vote-withdraw** — Allows you to release tokens locked up for voting on challenges, therefore decreasing the maximum weight you can place on your votes.

# Learn More

If you would like more information about becoming a LAO member or project,
please reach out to us at [hello@thelao.io](http://hello@thelao.io/). For
further information, check out our [docs](https://docs.thelao.io/), which
cover questions about The LAO’s structure and operation, or hit us up via
[email](http://hello@thelao.io/) or
[telegram.](https://t.me/joinchat/FLvdBBVz3o9pfi-rfd9BqQ)

\--

\--

\--

## [More from The LAO](/@thelaoofficial?source=post_page-----
75cc48fda352--------------------------------)

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F71c8a361b148&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40thelaoofficial%2Fthe-
lao-scout-launching-a-token-curated-registry-to-crowdsource-the-best-
blockchain-
projects-75cc48fda352&newsletterV3=61217eadf32d&newsletterV3Id=71c8a361b148&user=The+LAO&userId=61217eadf32d&source=-----75cc48fda352
---------------------subscribe_user-----------)

A For-Profit, Limited Liability Autonomous Organization, powered by
@OpenLawOfficial.

Love podcasts or audiobooks? Learn on the go with our new app.

[Try
Knowable](https://knowable.fyi/?utm_source=medium&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=medium-
post-footer&source=post_page-----75cc48fda352--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![INTAS.tech](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*p5dzaG9jts_v_6VTdQoiHw.png)](/@intas-
tech?source=post_internal_links---------0----------------------------)

[INTAS.tech

](/@intas-tech?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## INTAS.tech: Frankfurt School and Plutoneo set up blockchain consulting firm

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*KqPTZXgzPiGXHiuBm5nlVQ.jpeg)](/@intas-
tech/intas-tech-frankfurt-school-and-plutoneo-set-up-blockchain-consulting-
firm-9a8f36538810?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![TBN_CAPITAL](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*fI5bDUV5qerKjJ9V)](/@tbncapital6868?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[TBN_CAPITAL

](/@tbncapital6868?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## AMA: TBN CAPITAL 🤝 MINE BARONS

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*OzK2IITA2rkp98t426vkEw.png)](/@tbncapital6868/ama-
tbn-capital-mine-barons-93521f396b3a?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![KCN_media](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*jGtt1mSUEVYC02oA.jpg)](/@Koles_News?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[KCN_media

](/@Koles_News?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## KCN: Neogen Corporation Partnerships with Ripe Technology

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*9Og5WB0w2mclDkQmEAMslA.jpeg)](/@Koles_News/kcn-
neogen-corporation-partnerships-with-ripe-technology-
ef07fc0699c6?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

[[![Blockonomist
Staff](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*kSYEnOr1yWmwSqj8_KVlMA.png)](/@blockonomist?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Blockonomist Staff

](/@blockonomist?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

in

[Geek Culture

](https://medium.com/geekculture?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Pepsi to Launch NFTs to Celebrate Anniversary

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*UfUWveTrh75HiRwnyjekbg.jpeg)](/geekculture/pepsi-
to-launch-nfts-to-celebrate-
anniversary-98efdde2380a?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![ConsenSys](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*HWsBYAT2n833Op1P3T_Osw.png)](/@ConsenSys?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[ConsenSys

](/@ConsenSys?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

in

[ConsenSys Media

](https://medium.com/consensys-media?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Blockchain in Europe: Learnings From the EU Blockchain Observatory and
Forum

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*CtaHBeKxxofySXuw.jpg)](/consensys-
media/blockchain-in-europe-learnings-from-the-eu-blockchain-observatory-and-
forum-63de99bc5272?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Somayyeh
Gholami](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*77_s3k_dINXSgsi1Ow3DHg.jpeg)](/@somayyeh_43305?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Somayyeh Gholami

](/@somayyeh_43305?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[HackerNoon.com

](https://medium.com/hackernoon?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Write and read “Smart Contract” but it`s an “Automated Contract”

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*34eT3sjD63dcMogH7XJ_lw.jpeg)](/hackernoon/write-
and-read-smart-contract-but-it-s-an-automated-
contract-c2325d634a77?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![zk
Capital](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*ofj1GFIpwvVxQphAs7Z7Jw.jpeg)](/@zkCAPITAL?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[zk Capital

](/@zkCAPITAL?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[HackerNoon.com

](https://medium.com/hackernoon?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## IPFS: A Complete Analysis of The Distributed Web

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*8P4Oef0EUVqo1UcMb9WB7A.png)](/hackernoon/ipfs-
a-complete-analysis-of-the-distributed-
web-6465ff029b9b?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![RanJan](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*sMGVEteQEbCUXi9p)](/@ranworkformail06?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[RanJan

](/@ranworkformail06?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Environment friendly green blockchain by Tarun Baur | Mission & Vission

](/@ranworkformail06/environment-friendly-green-blockchain-by-tarun-baur-
mission-vission-bd6fd760367c?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----75cc48fda352--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
75cc48fda352--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
75cc48fda352--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
75cc48fda352--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
75cc48fda352--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----75cc48fda352--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----75cc48fda352--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40thelaoofficial%2Fthe-
lao-scout-launching-a-token-curated-registry-to-crowdsource-the-best-
blockchain-projects-75cc48fda352&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![The
LAO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/2*X_8LYIcePYE1DMhi8vcHFw.png)](/@thelaoofficial)

[

## The LAO

](/@thelaoofficial)

608 Followers

A For-Profit, Limited Liability Autonomous Organization, powered by
@OpenLawOfficial.

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F71c8a361b148&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40thelaoofficial%2Fthe-
lao-scout-launching-a-token-curated-registry-to-crowdsource-the-best-
blockchain-
projects-75cc48fda352&newsletterV3=61217eadf32d&newsletterV3Id=71c8a361b148&user=The+LAO&userId=61217eadf32d&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Victor Kelechi
Kingsley](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*-lqdBbczsmlf54nT-03R3A.jpeg)](/@officialmrawesome?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------c7ede131_e5d4_478b_b851_e821842665af-------)

[Victor Kelechi Kingsley

](/@officialmrawesome?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
c7ede131_e5d4_478b_b851_e821842665af-------)

## " While we were absent minded, a virus has eaten deep into Crypto and will
soon take all your money.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*fzc5GKs7KaCUEsRhZ09DnA.jpeg)](/@officialmrawesome/while-
we-were-absent-minded-a-virus-has-eaten-deep-into-crypto-and-will-soon-take-
all-your-money-dfb7572ac32d?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------c7ede131_e5d4_478b_b851_e821842665af-------)

[[![John Wingate](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*xQc3O-b-
BRhSb8N-eL3RRA.jpeg)](/@presidenthodl?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------c7ede131_e5d4_478b_b851_e821842665af-------)

[John Wingate

](/@presidenthodl?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
c7ede131_e5d4_478b_b851_e821842665af-------)

in

[BankSocial News

](https://medium.com/banksocial?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------c7ede131_e5d4_478b_b851_e821842665af-------)

## Are DAOs that great? Recent Hacks Reveal the Achilles Heel of DAOs

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*YDnkK9iyuO9fH0Qtpxt0lw.png)](/banksocial/are-
daos-that-great-recent-hacks-reveal-the-achilles-heel-of-
daos-94efb03638e8?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
c7ede131_e5d4_478b_b851_e821842665af-------)

[[![Kristian
Lamarre](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*af5Cryr6SueF9zZ55ZTpJw.jpeg)](/@kristianlamarre?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------c7ede131_e5d4_478b_b851_e821842665af-------)

[Kristian Lamarre

](/@kristianlamarre?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
c7ede131_e5d4_478b_b851_e821842665af-------)

in

[Sencha

](https://medium.com/sencha-credit?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------c7ede131_e5d4_478b_b851_e821842665af-------)

## Crypto Lending vs. Staking

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*3ycO8PsOB-
CWJhpGTeDh7g.png)](/sencha-credit/crypto-lending-vs-
staking-72c74ca66323?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
c7ede131_e5d4_478b_b851_e821842665af-------)

[[![Roger
Portnoy](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*uJP_5pier8rpTJxODoosgA.jpeg)](/@roger.portnoy?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------c7ede131_e5d4_478b_b851_e821842665af-------)

[Roger Portnoy

](/@roger.portnoy?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
c7ede131_e5d4_478b_b851_e821842665af-------)

## Digital Asset Ecosystem: Exploring the Observations of a GenZ

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*tjg05jesLv9aPK4YjHXrtw.jpeg)](/@roger.portnoy/digital-
asset-ecosystem-exploring-the-observations-of-a-genz-
def50128d2cb?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
c7ede131_e5d4_478b_b851_e821842665af-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

