[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/4de0e97396a&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Electric
Capital](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*ynDbUKpwoWb3dlmTPdsQ4g.png)](https://medium.com/electric-
capital?source=post_page-----4de0e97396a--------------------------------)

Published in

[Electric Capital

](https://medium.com/electric-capital?source=post_page-----
4de0e97396a--------------------------------)

[![Electric Capital](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*ifX6yO65hntG2mpzf-
ICTw.png)](/@ElectricCapital?source=post_page-----
4de0e97396a--------------------------------)

[Electric Capital](/@ElectricCapital?source=post_page-----
4de0e97396a--------------------------------)

Follow

Sep 11, 2020

·

20 min read

# The Case for Collaboration: Why the US Government and Crypto Ecosystem Must
Work Together

This is a modified version of the letter we sent investors in Electric Capital
as part of our 2020 Q2 update.

# The Case for Collaboration: Why the US Government and Crypto Ecosystem Must
Work Together

# Summary

China is set to roll out a digital renminbi settlement platform (“digital
currency/electronic payment” or “DC/EP”). The US is the one country that could
offer an alternative to a global Chinese DCEP. While there are meaningful
roles for European and Asian governments to play, without the United States’s
active involvement, these other regions can at best slow down the Chinese
government’s initiatives.

We believe the U.S. government cannot outcompete the Chinese Government
unilaterally on a CBDC or global DCEP settlement layer. It must follow a
multi-pronged strategy of offering a viable alternative to the Chinese DCEP
and competing asymmetrically via benefits the Chinese government structurally
cannot offer: freedom of speech, privacy, due process, and protection from
unreasonable search and seizure.

Similarly, the crypto ecosystem is unlikely to outcompete the Chinese
government without significant support from the US Government. The crypto
community must make the case to the US Government to work together against the
Chinese Government’s efforts.

Our analysis is rooted in assessing the optimal strategies for the Chinese
government, US government, and crypto community rather than any value
judgements or ideologies.

In order to remain competitive, the US Government and the crypto community
must:

  1.  **Modernize USD settlement platforms as an alternative to the Digital RMB / DCEP** — Invest in a USD settlement platform to modernize the Federal Reserve system.
  2.  **Make cryptodollars broadly available by mid-2021** — Deploy cryptodollars by mid-2021 through public-private partnerships with USDC, Libra, Celo, Avanti Bank and other platforms targeted at the banking and payment sectors. Cryptodollars can reach emerging markets faster than the legacy banking system and faster than the DCEP.
  3.  **Create regulatory clarity to unlock decentralized cryptocurrencies as an offensive tool and expand the reach of the USD** — empower decentralized cryptonetworks that codify democractic values such as privacy and protection from extra-judicial seizure. This ensures the center of gravity of these rapidly growing decentralized ecosystems is primarily in US companies, denominated in USD, and able to extend the reach of the dollar to emerging markets and authoritarian regimes (where access to the USD is strictly regulated). The alternative is to cede that many multi-billion dollar companies on these platforms will have their center of gravity outside the US.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*tjSEc5llawHK0ftnU7ee7A.png)

 **Optimal Strategies: The Game Theory of Digital Currencies**

Given how far ahead the Chinese Government is of the US Government and the
distribution advantages the DCEP has over crypto ecosystems, the US and crypto
ecosystem must collaborate. A cryptocurrency ecosystem without the US
Government’s support will quickly lose to an ecosystem built on the Chinese
DCEP. If the US Government attempts to compete with the Chinese DCEP without
using decentralized cryptonetworks, the US Government will lose.

 **Given: The Chinese Government aims to use DCEP as a global settlement
layer**

As in the case of paper money, the operation of the Chinese DCEP, including
the issuance and distribution of the central bank digital currency (CBDC),
will be based on a two-tiered system. The first tier consists of transactions
between the PBoC and intermediaries, including China’s largest banks, wherein
the PBoC issues digital renminbi first to these intermediaries. The second
tier consists of transactions between intermediaries and retail market
participants, including individuals and Chinese fintech companies such as
Alibaba and Tencent. The second tier receives the CBDC so that it can
circulate through the market and settle transactions back to the first tier.
The two tier system allows for efficient control of money supply and due to
the Chinese Government’s data visibility into companies, allows the government
to have line-item level visibility into individuals and businesses spending
money with institutions in tier two.

The Chinese government’s investments in DCEP and blockchain are a sign of
three things:  
1/ It recognizes the **inevitability of blockchain technology applications**
and is investing in them. President Xi outlined in October 2019 that “[China
must] increase investment, focus on a number of key core technologies, and
accelerate the development of blockchain technology and industrial
innovation.” The Blockchain Services Network that seeks to unify many internal
government systems is also allowing the Chinese government to develop
cryptography and distributed systems engineering expertise at scale.  
2/ It desires a world with an **RMB denominated settlement layer** and
financial services built on top of its settlement layer, where Chinese
engineers and institutions have deep technical expertise while the U.S. fails
to support these technologies. While users may have privacy from each other on
the Chinese DCEP, because of transactions being shared from the second tier
back with the Chinese government, any person or business using the DCEP or
applications built on top of it would have all of their data accessible to the
Chinese government.  
3/ Plan B is to **protect itself from the threat of cryptocurrencies** and
have influence over a cryptocurrency ecosystem that stands independent of the
USD. For example, the Chinese government has focused on supporting the
manufacturing underlying Bitcoin mining while limiting its citizens’ access to
Bitcoin to prevent capital outflows and minimize social unrest.

The Chinese government’s ideal outcome is a world where cryptonetworks and the
US government do not cooperate with each other, leaving the Chinese DCEP free
to gain market share. This would allow the Chinese government to develop
technical capabilities using its Blockchain Services Network, have increased
significant asymmetric advantages internationally via the DCEP, deepened ties
between China and Belt & Road countries, built defensive capabilities against
the threat of cryptocurrencies, and have pushed companies in the crypto
ecosystem to be non-USD denominated.

 **Cryptonetworks need support from the US Government to compete against the
Chinese Government**

Cryptonetworks present many challenges to the Chinese Government as they
enable privacy, censorship resistance, and individual economic freedom.
Unfortunately the crypto community is weak exactly where the Chinese DCEP and
Blockchain Services Network are strong — distribution, capital investment, and
regulatory clarity.

Although cryptocurrencies, cryptonetworks, and other decentralized
technologies are under threat from, and are threatening to the Chinese
government, they exist in a challenging regulatory environment in the US. The
environment in the US creates significant friction, leads to entrepreneurs to
waste millions of dollars on legal fees, and many entrepreneurs choose to not
enter the space at all. Despite this, many of the best and the brightest in
the US are moving quickly towards these greenfield opportunities with
companies such as Coinbase now worth $8B and Square ($40B) being a critical
on-ramp for USD to Bitcoin. Decentralized technologies appeal to many in the
US on a philosophical basis and offer a new digital frontier where incumbents
such as Google, Apple, and Amazon do not have structural advantages, for
example because of privacy primitives that may prevent advertising based
business models.

The crypto community has thus far focused on protecting cryptonetworks from
the US Government. The community must now also educate regulators and
policymakers on the **_positive_** __ role that cryptonetworks (both public-
private partnerships and fully decentralized) can play geopolitically and in
natural security.

 **The US needs support from the crypto community to outcompete the Chinese
DCEP**

The US Government has no comprehensive plans for a CBDC or USD settlement
layer, has created regulatory uncertainty which slows blockchain based
innovation, and has not strategically established influence over decentralized
cryptocurrencies. The ideal US system would have the following properties:

  * Be **_available immediately_** to prevent the Chinese DCEP from capturing market share
  *  ** _Offer rapid settlement_** on par with the Chinese DCEP
  * Be **_backward compatible with the existing USD system_** — to reinforce the USD as a global settlement currency and to minimize transition costs for entities using USD settlement today.
  *  ** _Extend the reach of the USD_** in to Belt & Road countries where the banking system may be nascent but mobile phone penetration is high.
  *  ** _Offer due process and privacy guarantees_** that the Chinese DCEP would be unwilling to provide.
  *  _Have a_ ** _robust entrepreneurial ecosystem to innovate_** _on top of the platform._
  * Allow for the efficient and effective use of KYC/AML **_tooling for law enforcement_** _._

There is no path for the US Government to accomplish all of these aims with
only a CBDC effort. The recent history of the US Government attempting to
build software is unpleasant. A US government driven CBDC will be slow to
market and will almost certainly fail. An open, entrepreneurial approach can
succeed because it takes advantage of the US’s unique advantages: the
intellectual capital available in US-based crypto companies and the ability
for decentralized cryptonetworks to quickly extend the reach of the USD.

The U.S. government can only accomplish its aims if it quickly deploys a three
pronged approach:

  1.  **Modernize USD settlement platforms as an alternative to the Digital RMB / DCEP** — Invest in a USD settlement platform to modernize the Federal Reserve system.
  2.  **Make cryptodollars broadly available by mid-2021** — Deploy cryptodollars by mid-2021 through public-private partnerships with USDC, Libra, Celo, Avanti Bank and other platforms targeted at the banking and payment sectors. Cryptodollars can reach emerging markets faster than the legacy banking system and faster than the DCEP.
  3.  **Create regulatory clarity to unlock decentralized cryptocurrencies as an offensive tool and expand the reach of the USD** — empower decentralized cryptonetworks that codify democractic values such as privacy and protection from extra-judicial seizure. This ensures the center of gravity of these rapidly growing decentralized ecosystems is primarily in US companies, denominated in USD, and able to extend the reach of the dollar to emerging markets and authoritarian regimes (where access to the USD is strictly regulated). The alternative is to cede that many multi-billion dollar companies on these platforms will have their center of gravity outside the US.

By employing a three pronged approach, the US govt can achieve all of its
strategic aims:

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*tjSEc5llawHK0ftnU7ee7A.png)

 **Prong 1: A US CBDC Alternative to the Chinese DCEP (Table Stakes)**

 _Advantages:_ A centralized US Central Bank Digital Currency can be designed
to be efficient, backward compatible with the existing Fed banking system. By
modernizing its infrastructure, the entire industry from the Federal Reserve
out to retail banks would be made efficient. Instant, global settlement across
banks that could be built on top of by credit cards, lending companies, and
banks could be transformative in particular for those who are excluded from
the existing banking system because of high fees. Existing tools for law
enforcement such as KYC/AML compliance by the banking system would carry
forward easily.

The expertise to build these sorts of secure distributed systems with modern
cryptography is primarily in the crypto community today.

 _Challenges:_ Such a backwards compatible CBDC + Fedwire system would take
years to implement and adopt throughout the global banking system. It would
not be viable for the parts of the world where the USD is currently difficult
to access or where banking infrastructure is nascent. This is table stakes and
would come to market many years too late to be competitive.

 _Concrete recommendations:_

  * Encourage broad adoption by US and international banks by involving them in testing of the US CBDC + updated Fedwire (a USD DCEP) settlement layer.
  * Adopt financial privacy into the requirements for a USD based DCEP such that the new US DCEP is considered a more trustworthy alternative to the Chinese DCEP.

 **Prong 2: Get to market in 12 months via public-private Cryptodollar DCEP
(Defensive Tactic)**

 _Advantages:_ The infrastructure for cryptodollars exists today and the
crypto community is actively trying to engage in public-private partnerships.
These private efforts bridge between regulated USD bank accounts and crypto
networks that offer cutting edge technology designed for instant settlement,
backwards compatibility with the USD banking system, tooling for law
enforcement, and the ability to reach millions (or billions) of people,
private companies, and NGOs. For example, USDC is a cryptodollar supported by
Coinbase, backed by USD in American banks, and used by tens of thousands. The
Libra USD (supported by the Libra Foundation) and Celo Dollars (supported by
the Celo Foundation) could offer similar solutions and bring the cryptodollar
to millions or billions of people globally in the coming years.

Crypto industry projects (Ethereum, Celo, NEAR, Libra, etc.) also offer the
significant advantage of smart contracts in addition to fast settlement. These
systems can serve as the basis for robust financial markets for global trade
denominated in USD and settled instantly instead of weeks as in the legacy
banking system. Banking, retail, supply chain, and other companies could build
on top of these platforms, thus ensuring the continued success of the USD and
of platforms whose success is aligned with the US.

A cryptodollar could achieve global scale in under 12 months. The blocker to
mass adoption has been US policymakers who are concerned that such efforts may
grant significant influence to a private company at the expense of the Federal
Reserve. If instead, the US were to support multiple cryptodollar efforts
where USD is held in US banks, and encourage American companies to participate
in these ecosystems, cryptodollar platforms would proliferate, and competitive
platforms could emerge, while keeping these ecosystems under US jurisdiction.

 _Challenges:_ The Chinese government has strategically deployed $1 trillion
across its Belt and Road initiative, and the DCEP as a critical part of this
initiative will be well resourced. Private companies will have a hard time
competing against a state actor like the Chinese government.

 _Recommendations:_

  * Support multiple consortia using cryptodollars to ensure financial, banking, and trade applications in emerging markets are built on the USD.
  * Encourage collaboration between law enforcement and companies working in these consortia.
  * Allow banks to hold custody crypto assets on behalf of customers (recently completed).

 **Prong 3: Employ cryptonetworks to offer what the Chinese DCEP cannot
(Asymmetric, Offensive Tactic)**

 _Advantages:_ As the third prong, the US must offer benefits the Chinese
government is structurally unable to offer: freedom of speech, privacy, due
process, and protection from unreasonable search and seizure. As they control
social media, search, and have built the Great Firewall, the Chinese
Government will pursue strict control over the digital RMB via the DCEP and
will make efficient use of the data collected. Decentralized cryptonetworks
offer individual protections such as privacy by design. These properties are
desired by many, in particular by people in emerging markets with unstable
governments and fiat systems. As a means to destabilize regimes that are
actively trying to circumvent the USD, decentralized cryptocurrencies are an
under-utilized offensive tool if used appropriately. By putting
cryptocurrencies in the hands of individuals in these countries and allowing
them to move out of their fiat systems, while retaining significant influence
over the decentralized ecosystems themselves, and controlling fiat offramps in
the rest of the world, the US Government can reinforce the strength of its
position globally.

 _Challenges:_ By the same token, decentralized systems are intimidating for
democractic governments. They are hard to control, could be used for nefarious
purposes, and as a technology present novel challenges for securities, tax,
and financial regulators. By focusing only on these challenges at the expense
of the benefits of these new cryptonetworks, the US has left significant
strategic value untapped. The US has also left the door open for the Chinese
government to be the most influential actor in these ecosystems. Lack of
participation in these networks has thus exposed the US to the risks that most
concern US regulators.

 _Recommendations:_

  * Enable crypto custodians to become federally qualified custodians. This would allow American companies to be the primary custodians for cryptoassets globally.
  * Encourage cryptocurrency mining and staking using renewable energy and excess energy in energy producing counties in the US. Subsidies to encourage data center construction would serve to create construction and new IT jobs in rural communities.
  * Clarify tax treatment of staking rewards to be the equivalent of dilution via new share issuance rather than dividends or new income at the time of receipt.
  * Approve of Bitcoin and Ethereum ETFs by the SEC. This would make US regulated markets the primary fiat inflow and outflow into the cryptocurrency ecosystems.
  * As initially proposed by current SEC Commissioner Hester Perce, create a safe harbor sandbox whereby new cryptonetworks can launch without fear and have a path to be sufficiently decentralized, such that their tokens are commodities. This encourages the best entrepreneurs to start businesses in the US and target US customers first, rather than avoiding the US and not offering novel products to US consumers and businesses.
  * A clear definition of what constitutes a “decentralized” network such that entrepreneurs can start cryptonetwork based businesses and stay compliant
  * A tax exemption on de minimis ($500) capital gains from cryptocurrencies to encourage spending these digital currencies which would drive merchant and business support. Merchant demand would create incentives for businesses in the US to innovate on top of crypto infrastructure and bring these innovations to their users around the world.

 **Conclusion**

The need for collaboration between the US and the crypto community comes
naturally from their own self interests, goals, and shared opportunities. The
Chinese DCEP as a common rival for the US Government and the crypto ecosystem
presents significant challenges for both, as well as a significant new
opportunity to collaborate.

For the U.S., the geopolitical advantages of being the world’s medium of
exchange and unit of account are at stake. Collaboration with the crypto
community retains the benefits of being the world’s reserve currency and
remaining the world’s center of technological innovation. Furthermore
sensitive data that may be routed to the Chinese government in a Chinese DCEP
system can be encrypted and remain private. By collaborating with the crypto
ecosystem the US can more quickly and easily achieve its strategic
initiatives.

For the crypto ecosystem, competing against the Chinese government’s DCEP and
Blockchain Services Network initiatives becomes much easier with the US
Government’s support. In many ways the US Government can unlock global
adoption of cryptocurrencies.

While it will not be easy to foster real collaboration between various parts
of the US Government and the decentralized crypto community, we believe it is
the best path forward and the only path that does not result in a Chinese DCEP
dominated future.

# Appendix

 **Deep Dive: Motivations for the Chinese Govt, US Govt, & Crypto Community**

In summary, the Chinese Government seeks to build an RMB settlement
alternative to the USD denominated settlement layer used by most of the world.
If this does not work, the next best outcome for the Chinese government is to
have significantly more influence over the emerging, decentralized
cryptocurrency ecosystem than the US. While the US and crypto community are
philosophically aligned, they are not yet working together against their
common competitor in the Chinese DCEP.

 ** _CHINA_**

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*X5WbCSENHwGA6KOq)

 _The DCEP Wallet offered by participating platforms (e.g. Bank of China,
Alipay) enables QR code payments, remittances, and P2P payments. Users can
manage DCEP funds, and link the DCEP wallet to other accounts._

 **China** is the front-runner in CBDC research and deployment. After six
years of research, the People’s Bank of China (PBoC) has
[launched](https://www.wsj.com/articles/china-rolls-out-pilot-test-of-digital-
currency-11587385339) pilot programs of its digital RMB in four major cities
in 2020 and is planning expansion into more regions. The DCEP system is a
token-based digital currency running on a two-tiered centralized private
network controlled by the PBoC. Chinese banks and third-party payment
platforms act as intermediaries and settlement ultimately happens in RMB. The
DCEP will initially be used across government institutions, then large Chinese
companies, and then as a settlement layer across the Belt and Road.

The DCEP is now part of a broader strategic initiative to use blockchain
technologies by the Chinese Government. In November 2019, President Xi Jinping
reversed Chinese policy, launching a national campaign to make China a global
leader in blockchain technologies. The Chinese government is investing in ways
to influence decentralized crypto platforms, as they have successfully done
through other platforms including social media, in order to use these
technologies as an offensive weapon.

 _Most major Chinese companies have announced involvement in DCEP_

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*N8grR1gEzWNkrM2WzFgKXA.png)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*j9dq9sY9ktxzxBtz)

 _Motivations of Chinese Government: A DCEP settlement system free of the USD_

  * Increase efficiency, security, and speed of retail and cross-border payments and settlements.
  * Improve record-keeping and verification of financial transactions.
  * Increase government oversight of all aspects of the economy, including international capital flows and real-time macro and financial indicators (e.g. inflation).
  * Facilitate RMB internationalization in tandem with the Belt and Road Initiative and third-party payment platforms such as WeChat Pay and Alipay.
  * Bypass the U.S.-based SWIFT settlement system to avoid the threat of U.S. sanctions.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*A-HlWKulAFXSfO84)

 _Threats posed by DCEP_

  * Through a combination of DCEP and the Social Credit System, the Chinese government will be able to financially isolate and suppress critics and dissidents including journalists, intellectuals, minorities, and would-be political opponents.
  * The centralized ledger system could be used as a way to preferentially and unfairly benefit Chinese companies, as the great firewall of China has done domestically.
  * Data privacy and security risk to foreign entities since all financial data operated on by Chinese firms could be transferred to the Chinese government pursuant to the [2017 Cybersecurity Law ](https://www.newamerica.org/cybersecurity-initiative/digichina/blog/translation-cybersecurity-law-peoples-republic-china/)and the new 2020 draft [Data Security Law](https://www.newamerica.org/cybersecurity-initiative/digichina/blog/five-important-take-aways-chinas-draft-data-security-law/).

On the current path, the US will lose its significant strategic and national
security advantages in having a global USD based payment and settlement
platform. This is not a hypothetical situation. In just five years, Russia and
China have shifted from 80% to 42% of their trade settled in USD. The DCEP can
achieve a similar goal across the Belt and Road in coming five to ten years.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*HDAYvtIZXE9vceOY)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*t8Y2RlspdjcGN9YW)

 _The Belt and Road initiative extends from Beijing to South Asia, Africa, and
Western Europe. The Belt and Road gives the digital RMB global distribution to
continue de-dollarization of Chinese trade._

 ** _United States of America_**

 **The U.S.** has been resistant to CBDC experimentation. To date there are no
concrete moves towards a digital dollar, despite calls for Federal Reserve
accounts among certain legislators.

  * The Federal Reserve has avoided exploration of a digital dollar, instead focusing on very minor efficiency gains through the FedNow instant payments system that would bring the Fed’s financial infrastructure from the 1970s to the 1990s.
  * Any move toward a digital dollar would require Congressional action. However, banks in the West are making headway on real-time cross-border payments (e.g. J.P. Morgan’s JPM Coin and SWIFT gpi). U.S. regulators are supportive of these developments: On July 22, the Treasury Department’s Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) granted permission to banks to custody cryptocurrencies.
  * Meanwhile in Silicon Valley, the Libra stablecoin initiative, originally started by Facebook now[ seeks](https://libra.org/en-US/white-paper/#cover-letter) to work closely with incumbents, including global central banks, regulators, and financial institutions. Under the umbrella of the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA), Libra is seeking to issue multiple single-currency stablecoins rather than its initial concept of one stablecoin backed by multiple assets.
  * Celo, Mobilecoin, and others are launching their own consortia that enable crypto-fiat in addition to cryptocurrencies and digital assets (e.g. Celo Gold, Bitcoin, and Ethereum.)

 _US Government Motivations: Maintain a USD based global settlement system_

  * Maintain the USD as the primary global reserve currency as a tool of national security.
  * Continued position of the USD as the primary unit of account for debt and primary medium of exchange to drive global demand for US Dollars.
  * Continued efficacy of the existing toolkit to prevent bad actors at fiat offramps and offramps including but not limited to forced KYC and AML by banks and financial sanctions.
  * Minimize disruption from alternative currencies and financial transaction platforms that circumvent the role of the USD and the US banking system.
  * Privacy of citizens’ data and protection against seizure of citizens’ assets by non-US governments
  * Sovereignty in financial decision making free from undue influence by non-US governments.

 ** _Cryptocurrency Community_**

Cryptocurrencies have gone from a fringe idea to a $200B asset class in a
decade. What started as an experiment has spread to 30 million Americans, over
60M around the world, and acceptance by institutions such as Fidelity, Paul
Tudor Jones, and university endowments, among others. Platforms such as
Ethereum and NEAR allow us to reimagine financial primitives with greater
transparency, and emerging token-enabled infrastructure allows us to reimagine
the web without Amazon’s cloud and without going through the Google or Apple
App Stores as intermediaries.

 _Motivations of cryptocurrency and decentralized technology community_

  * Privacy of individual’s data and protection against extra-judicial seizure of assets by governments
  * Protect holders from fiat regimes that destroy value through poor monetary and fiscal decisions such as Venezuela and Zimbabwe.
  * Bottoms up innovation to empower individuals rather than mega corporations.

 ** _Europe_**

In **Europe** , while policy-makers have actively criticized American the
Libra project’s stablecoin and cross-border payment ambitions, they are
struggling to agree on a common EU digital finance and payments strategy. The
initiatives that exist in Europe remain small-scale.

  * Only Sweden is making significant moves on CBDCs with its e-Krona, though its focus is domestic.
  * The Bank of International Settlements (BIS) is partnering with the Swiss National Bank to create a wholesale digital currency to be used between banks.
  * In April 2020, the Bank of France called for applications to experiment with CBDCs for interbank settlements. Bank of France Governor Francois Villeroy de Galhau has[ advocate](https://www.reuters.com/article/france-cenbank-idUSL8N28E52D)d the ECB move toward an e-Euro.
  * The Dutch Central Bank (DNB) has[ pitched](https://www.dnb.nl/en/binaries/WEB_127593_OS_CBDC_tcm47-388318.PDF) itself as a viable R&D and testing ground for a European CBDC.
  * The focus in Europe is still on improving digital payment rails through existing European banks. For instance, 20 European banks are working on the Pan-European Payment System Initiative (PEPSI) to build a pan-European digital payment service.

 _Motivations of EU_

  * Privacy of data and protection against seizure of assets by non-EU governments
  * Sovereignty in financial decision making free from undue influence by non-EU governments.
  * Some in the EU argue for a multipolar world where the US is not as dominant and the USD a less powerful tool for the US to exert influence over other countries.

 ** _Asia excluding China_**

By contrast, **Asia** is making rapid progress. With China on their doorstep,
Asian countries are creating rival payment platforms and CBDCs to protect
domestic markets and their sovereignty.

  * On April 6, the Bank of Korea[ announced](https://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/biz/2020/04/367_287431.html) it launched a pilot to research CBDCs.
  * In July, the Bank of Japan reversed its original position by announcing it would start experimenting with digital yen. The Japanese government is set to [include](https://www.nikkei.com/article/DGXMZO61499170U0A710C2MM8000/) CBDCs in its official economic plan. Given progress in China, there is now increasing[ pressure](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-japan-economy-digital/japan-ruling-party-panel-aims-to-put-digital-yen-on-governments-mid-year-policy-idUSKBN2040IN) from Japanese legislators to pursue some form of digital currency. Japanese banks are already making inroads, launching J-Coin Pay — a QR-based digital wallet designed by[ Mizuho Bank](https://www.mizuhobank.com/company/release/20190220release_eng.html) in association with sixty other banks in Japan.
  * Central banks in Singapore, Thailand, Cambodia, and Hong Kong are moving towards issuing their own digital currencies.
  * Singapore has moved to r[egulate](https://www.theblockcrypto.com/post/54159/new-singapore-law-requires-crypto-firms-to-be-licensed-in-the-country) crypto businesses under the Payment Services Act and invest in blockchain technology at the government level.
  * While India has yet to make a decision on CBDC issuance, there are strong [incentives](https://4c44db83-35be-491f-a87f-fc7c6a312fd0.filesusr.com/ugd/cc85ab_0d68282aa0f94253acc1927d80937433.pdf) for the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to unite existing public and private systems in a country of 1.3BN where ballooning payments offer enormous opportunities and risks. India has moved towards digital payments and digital identity already and a digital CBDC would be a natural extension.
  * In India, as with all other Asian countries, the risk of Chinese payment platforms dominating domestic markets is great and we will doubtless see more government moves to support local fintech players and legislative pressure for CBDCs.

 _Motivations of Asian Countries_

 **India**

Increase financial inclusion and fast-track path to cashlessness for 1.3BN
citizens; Crack down on money-laundering and fraud; Box out Chinese companies
from the fintech space; Enhance data sovereignty; Interest in remittances;
Preserve monetary and price stability

 **Japan**

Compete with Chinese companies in the fintech space; Seek a stronger dollar
and RMB (for exports); More receptive to stablecoins than USD or DCEP; Enhance
data sovereignty

 **South Korea**

Compete with Chinese companies in the fintech space; Seek a stronger dollar
and RMB; Enhance data sovereignty; More receptive to stablecoins than USD or
DCEP

 **Vietnam**

Crack down on money-laundering and fraud; Box out Chinese companies from the
fintech space; Enhance data sovereignty; Preserve monetary stability

 **Hong Kong**

Make cross-border finance more efficient; Serve as a financial hub for crypto
on- and off-ramps; Crack down on money-laundering and fraud; Interest in
remittances

 **Singapore**

Make cross-border finance more efficient; Serve as a financial hub for crypto
on- and off-ramps; Crack down on money-laundering and fraud; Interest in
remittances

 ** _Global Data_**

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*jSn7QPh-QyBKTvXS)

Countries that have announced CBDCs ( _BIS; Brookings Institute_ ; _official
announcements)_

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*0qQtIi6brbMSbYQkshzJmA.png)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*2G6l3dqyW736iZLieAAEeQ.png)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*wyxwVBdSLk8d2BGP)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*khSHsi-4kMbKM4Td)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*Ig0ylUYjZ06s9Ei3)

Source: <https://data.imf.org/?sk=E6A5F467-C14B-4AA8-9F6D-5A09EC4E62A4>

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*aIPyMV8hc63HizwE)

Source: <https://data.imf.org/?sk=E6A5F467-C14B-4AA8-9F6D-5A09EC4E62A4>

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Electric Capital](/electric-capital?source=post_page-----
4de0e97396a--------------------------------)

Electric Capital is an early stage venture firm focused on cryptocurrencies,
blockchain, fintech, and marketplaces.

[Read more from Electric Capital](/electric-capital?source=post_page-----
4de0e97396a--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Block
DAO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*f5xiCXmv6RTyo7qT5M191Q.jpeg)](/@blockdao?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Block DAO

](/@blockdao?source=post_internal_links---------0----------------------------)

## Bitcoin Becomes Legal Currency Again, Human Destiny Changes

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*VQKuJKheSHbRbL_PenzbTw.png)](/@blockdao/bitcoin-
becomes-legal-currency-again-human-destiny-
changes-6da53ad0afd8?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Leslie
Ankney](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*ox__COXJAnpQDNuNJ1IU1A.jpeg)](/@CryptoLeslie?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Leslie Ankney

](/@CryptoLeslie?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Taming Giants: Scaling Blockchain Currencies with Lightning and Plasma

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*MO-lmE-
hWNI3ecF5Jir6ww.jpeg)](/@CryptoLeslie/taming-giants-scaling-blockchain-
currencies-with-lightning-and-plasma-2c9d226db878?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[[![Nos.Cash](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*jUqQQc5yl2ElIwar2nvsIw.png)](/@nos.cash?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Nos.Cash

](/@nos.cash?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

## Nollar & the green cryptocurrency revolution

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*ieatsF-
XxUtff3c9)](/@nos.cash/nollar-the-green-cryptocurrency-
revolution-20161bd49fd6?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Joe
Moody](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*-KdqHyI6nFkSlGB7shCt6w.jpeg)](/@joe.moody?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Joe Moody

](/@joe.moody?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

in

[Money Stream

](https://medium.com/money-stream?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## What You’re Missing About the NFT Crypto Boom

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*eMm73V5DcR1LGBhXmTP4Vw.png)](/money-
stream/heres-why-nft-art-is-blowing-up-b46e82b08a28?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[[![airdrop
rex](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*JrhHD12TC07cwh5n.jpg)](/@airdroprex?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[airdrop rex

](/@airdroprex?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## StellarPay XLB "CONNECTING THE WORLD TO CRYPTO"

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*nSJ67d_4mSreteod-J8Frg.png)](/@airdroprex/stellarpay-
xlb-connecting-the-world-to-crypto-6c44b7703d08?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[[![CoinTiger](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*9bjvwtB9KA6uhG1Umka7ag.png)](/@cointiger?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[CoinTiger

](/@cointiger?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[CoinTiger

](https://medium.com/cointiger?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## PETG Will be Available on CoinTiger on 7 September. 1,720,000 PETG to Give
Away!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*ykYFCr2-Nwlr4uTueUnFWg.jpeg)](/cointiger/petg-
will-be-available-on-cointiger-on-7-september-1-720-000-petg-to-give-
away-6232ab2971b2?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Nicholas GS
Saul](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*KQXChwOEfFQKk6o3hJn4Hw.jpeg)](/@nicholas.saul?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Nicholas GS Saul

](/@nicholas.saul?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[Hacktivism

](https://medium.com/hacktivism?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## The Rating Society vs. the Blockchain

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*8JdVYv0miBVsKJ96mMw4Jg.png)](/hacktivism/the-
rating-society-vs-the-blockchain-b49bd60dce2d?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[[![Cryptialmaniac](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*SvIJTyeHkRdyctRE8jCNSQ.png)](/@syedurnetwork?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Cryptialmaniac

](/@syedurnetwork?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Bittorrent (BTT) Coin Price Prediction 2019 — New Tron’s Token is NOT What
You Expected (Early May…

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*A0rIfa6eqv8ZTfJ7)](/@syedurnetwork/bittorrent-
btt-coin-price-prediction-2019-new-trons-token-is-not-what-you-expected-early-
may-8983a28ee709?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----4de0e97396a--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
4de0e97396a--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
4de0e97396a--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
4de0e97396a--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
4de0e97396a--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----4de0e97396a--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----4de0e97396a--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Felectric-
capital%2Fthe-case-for-collaboration-why-the-us-government-and-crypto-
ecosystem-must-work-together-4de0e97396a&source=post_page
--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Electric
Capital](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*ifX6yO65hntG2mpzf-
ICTw.png)](/@ElectricCapital)

[

## Electric Capital

](/@ElectricCapital)

1.3K Followers

[www.electriccapital.com](http://www.electriccapital.com)

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F6d6e3b6cdb60&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Felectric-
capital%2Fthe-case-for-collaboration-why-the-us-government-and-crypto-
ecosystem-must-work-
together-4de0e97396a&newsletterV3=3cc66c573073&newsletterV3Id=6d6e3b6cdb60&user=Electric+Capital&userId=3cc66c573073&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Drake
Danner](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*7difaIkjSQuoujIx.jpg)](/@drakedanner?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------eba4b6db_cd90_47e3_8428_2b24c952da88-------)

[Drake Danner

](/@drakedanner?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
eba4b6db_cd90_47e3_8428_2b24c952da88-------)

## Why I’m Writing More

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*Q9pqrmx0HfOMsA0-.jpg)](/@drakedanner/why-
im-writing-more-7dd3f690ed36?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------eba4b6db_cd90_47e3_8428_2b24c952da88-------)

[[![Sahana
Sripadanna](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*6_n4LduNy6ebZ9yiSaYjrA.jpeg)](/@sahanasri?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------eba4b6db_cd90_47e3_8428_2b24c952da88-------)

[Sahana Sripadanna

](/@sahanasri?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
eba4b6db_cd90_47e3_8428_2b24c952da88-------)

## Progress Update 04/21

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*EvtTjNGCn0Sf7qH9ODVbAQ.png)](/@sahanasri/progress-
update-04-21-18072c8d3462?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------eba4b6db_cd90_47e3_8428_2b24c952da88-------)

[[![Eoin
Flynn](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*9Ps9sCIil5NJ8ikOmfg9sg.jpeg)](/@eoin-
flynn?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
eba4b6db_cd90_47e3_8428_2b24c952da88-------)

[Eoin Flynn

](/@eoin-flynn?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
eba4b6db_cd90_47e3_8428_2b24c952da88-------)

in

[TYMLEZ

](https://medium.com/tymlez?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------eba4b6db_cd90_47e3_8428_2b24c952da88-------)

## HBAR Strategic Partnership And $1M USD Grant

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*7fH6TjE_d4DA2gkI_C9aEQ.png)](/tymlez/hbar-
strategic-partnership-and-1m-usd-grant-61d2156524e4?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------eba4b6db_cd90_47e3_8428_2b24c952da88-------)

[[![Multis
HQ](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*1Ybqd2vkqzKZsS9DhXWo8A.png)](/@multishq?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------eba4b6db_cd90_47e3_8428_2b24c952da88-------)

[Multis HQ

](/@multishq?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
eba4b6db_cd90_47e3_8428_2b24c952da88-------)

## Evolving together with Multis

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*j5jvqtKqyb6l018bkTrz4A.png)](/@multishq/evolving-
together-with-multis-93fc5f2c7f?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------eba4b6db_cd90_47e3_8428_2b24c952da88-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

