[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/265301183ae0&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderUser&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![The
LAO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/2*X_8LYIcePYE1DMhi8vcHFw.png)](/@thelaoofficial?source=post_page
-----265301183ae0--------------------------------)

[The LAO](/@thelaoofficial?source=post_page-----
265301183ae0--------------------------------)

Follow

Apr 24, 2020

·

4 min read

#  **The End of PTSDAO: A Walkthrough of the LAO and Proposal Process**

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/0*rU6vdOrGEZgFKrZ3)

Industrialization brought us the corporation and joint-stock companies. Web3
will be anchored by millions of DAOs, pooling capital and allocating it like
water — with [The LAO](http://thelao.io). Now that a few years have passed,
the Ethereum ecosystem has shrugged off it’s “PTSDAO,” we’re ready to do this
again, the right way.

The internet democratized access to information, and today, we have more
content and publications than ever realized — no longer centralized by media
companies. The same phenomenon is now happening to financing. With the
continued growth and development of Web 3.0, we’ll continue to see the
evolution of startup financing through the use of decentralized organizations
that enable individuals to gather and deploy capital, and change the structure
and operational efficiency to which startups are funded.

This is the natural pathway and vision of Ethereum. We saw in 2016, The DAO,
which unfortunately experienced a hack and ran afoul of U.S. securities laws.
The LAO is resurrecting that vision and breathing new life into DAOs, with The
LAO, a limited liability autonomous organization. LAOs hold out the promise of
providing participants in these organizations with one way to achieve a
limitation of liability, by relying on existing legal structures, and thus the
freedom to experiment with less of a concern that the entity will place
members’ other assets at risk.

We [announced](/openlawofficial/the-lao-a-for-profit-limited-liability-
autonomous-organization-9eae89c9669c) that we were taking on a reprisal of The
DAO in the fall of 2019. Since then, our team has been diligently building a
seamless ‘dapp’ which allows members and projects to apply and govern the
mechanics of The LAO through a light-touch intuitive way, making for a
pleasurable user experience. By including features like [delegated voting for
members](/@thelaoofficial/the-lao-previewing-delegated-voting-e0b6241bffbb),
incorporating a [new standard for organization-based smart
contracts](/@thelaoofficial/moloch-v2-smart-contract-audit-report-for-the-
lao-48fb0415695a), [a mentor portal for LAO-funded
projects](/@thelaoofficial/the-lao-introduces-its-mentor-program-e2850805d9c7)
to get the help they need to jumpstart their company and a [curated registry
which crowdsources the best projects](/@thelaoofficial/the-lao-scout-
launching-a-token-curated-registry-to-crowdsource-the-best-blockchain-
projects-75cc48fda352) in Ethereum.

Today, we preview the walkthrough of the ‘Dapp’ and the project proposal
process.

##  **Walkthrough & Project Proposal Process**

Everything from funding to project financing, voting, legal agreements, and
the transfer of tokenized stock happens can happen in a more streamlined way,
making for a more efficient way to fund ideas — both for projects. The
governance and legal/commercial layer for DAOs will create a mechanism of
fundraising projects in the Ethereum ecosystem in a compliant fashion — all
while democratizing venture fundraising to those accredited investors that
would like to participate powered by[ OpenLaw](https://www.openlaw.io/)’s
tools.

As shown below, the administration of the LAO is handled through a dApp that
will enable projects to apply for funding, members to vote on who should
receive funding, with all of the necessary legal documentation automatically
created on the backend.

To see a glimpse of what this will all look like in practice, watch here (note
the demo is on Rinkeby with test amounts calibrated down):

As shown in the above, any project from around the globe can apply to the LAO
for funding. To do so, the project will need to provide The LAO with
information about the project and agree to set up and organize its project in
Delaware and tokenize its stock with the help of outside counsel. Each project
will provide the LAO with standard information, including, but not limited to:
details about the project, website url, links to pitch decks, or a whitepaper
— anything else to help LAO members understand the project.

By applying, each project will be eligible (at least initially) to receive an
investment via an automatically generated convertible note (with a right to
participate in any future token sale) containing the terms of potential
financing. The project will then move into member voting, where members can
review materials submitted by the project and vote on whether to provide
funding. During this process, members will be able to discuss the project
“off-chain” and OpenLaw will help collect any additional materials needed for
the members to make a decision and arrange for any follow-up meetings or other
conversations needed for members’ to make a decision.

If the members of the LAO approve the funding, the LAO smart contract will
retain the projects tokenized securities, and funding will be transferred to
the Ethereum address provided in the project proposal’s application. If the
application does not pass, the tokenized securities will automatically be
transferred back to the project.

##  **Don’t Miss Out**

The LAO is launching on April 28, 2020, which means prospective members can
sign up to join [here](https://www.thelao.io/verify). If you’re interested in
joining as a member, feel free to get accreditation approval prior to our date
of launch. For the launch, 100 Members will be able to purchase interests in
the LAO and the proceeds from the purchase will be pooled and allocated by
members to startups and other projects in need of financing, using a voting
mechanism and tools similar to Moloch DAO.

If you’re a [project](/@thelaoofficial/become-a-project-funded-by-the-
lao-333e03cf5c), we encourage you to [apply](https://www.thelao.io/apply) so
you are closer to first in line for member voting. Funding to the projects
will be provided in ether and once a member nominates a project for funding
and a majority of the members (based on their voting weight) approve the
allocation of funds.

The LAO is making raising capital for projects fast, easy and seamless.
Projects can simply submit a proposal, the members can then vote on it and
then, if passed with a majority vote, the project will receive funding
automatically — powered through the use of smart contracts. Founders can focus
on BUIDLing, instead of lurking from one venture fund to the next.

##  **Learn More**

If you would like more information about becoming a LAO member or project,
please reach out to us at [hello@thelao.io](http://hello@thelao.io/). For
further information, check out our [docs](https://docs.thelao.io/), which
cover questions about The LAO’s structure and operation, or hit us up via
[email](http://hello@thelao.io/) or
[telegram.](https://t.me/joinchat/FLvdBBVz3o9pfi-rfd9BqQ)

\--

\--

\--

## [More from The LAO](/@thelaoofficial?source=post_page-----
265301183ae0--------------------------------)

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F71c8a361b148&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40thelaoofficial%2Fthe-
end-of-ptsdao-a-walkthrough-of-the-lao-and-proposal-
process-265301183ae0&newsletterV3=61217eadf32d&newsletterV3Id=71c8a361b148&user=The+LAO&userId=61217eadf32d&source=-----265301183ae0
---------------------subscribe_user-----------)

A For-Profit, Limited Liability Autonomous Organization, powered by
@OpenLawOfficial.

Love podcasts or audiobooks? Learn on the go with our new app.

[Try
Knowable](https://knowable.fyi/?utm_source=medium&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=medium-
post-footer&source=post_page-----265301183ae0--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Nasi Lemak](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*OZ18DNqjx-qfhDq-
uvSFdg.jpeg)](/@nasilemakswap?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[Nasi Lemak

](/@nasilemakswap?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

in

[Nasi Lemak Finance

](https://medium.com/nasi-lemak-finance?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Nasi Lemak Finance Launch

](/nasi-lemak-finance/nasi-lemak-finance-
launch-e5db3f90ebe2?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Mr.
Fib_011235813](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*d_nugQd6eCWfpd63)](/@crypt2kpr?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Mr. Fib_011235813

](/@crypt2kpr?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## The Equaliser Difference (EQLI): Big Things On The Horizon

](/@crypt2kpr/the-equaliser-difference-eqli-big-things-on-the-
horizon-f6a553f22eaf?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![ProBit
Global](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*5u4LEID4wLAG10srGeMYyw.jpeg)](/@probit-
exchange?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

[ProBit Global

](/@probit-exchange?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[ProBit Global

](https://medium.com/probit-exchange?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## 🔥[ProBit Exclusive] POND at 50% Discount

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*2ux4cC02OodhGQBJ.png)](/probit-
exchange/probit-exclusive-pond-
at-50-discount-7102bd4bffaf?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Big
RKN](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*fu1w9TL3OzbEAHdAiw1aKg.png)](/@bigrkn?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Big RKN

](/@bigrkn?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

## How NFTs and Solana Are Changing My Life

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*87ms4hBORR1X9LeyxgYcKw.png)](/@bigrkn/how-
nfts-and-solana-are-changing-my-life-269fe9bd7e1e?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[[![Bit Team](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*C2B-BQi9ecIW9PCh)](/@bit-
team?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

[Bit Team

](/@bit-team?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

## Certainty of digital asset regulation is now the key agenda of the US
Congress

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*DnYqofw_Mr_gP1-67CYHzg.jpeg)](/@bit-
team/certainty-of-digital-asset-regulation-is-now-the-key-agenda-of-the-us-
congress-b41a3405a81d?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![WoMeNFT](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*canf5hTPF9tF9kf4u54yaA.jpeg)](/@womenft?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[WoMeNFT

](/@womenft?source=post_internal_links---------5----------------------------)

## WoMeNFT Customizable Collection

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*tK1r0jrccHt3xXYgipUABg.png)](/@womenft/womenft-
customizable-collection-3feb06cb20e6?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Nigeria Bitcoin
Community](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*8gtthAD2GdhZ1kBv3ByYLQ.jpeg)](/@infonigeriabitcoincommunity?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Nigeria Bitcoin Community

](/@infonigeriabitcoincommunity?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[Nigeria Bitcoin Community

](https://medium.com/nigeriabitcoincommunity?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

## CryptoLocally Review(2020) — An Amazing Way to Buy/Sell Cryptos in Your
Local Currency

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*fi11vAxaysK78jWV)](/nigeriabitcoincommunity/cryptolocally-
review-2020-an-amazing-way-to-buy-sell-cryptos-in-your-local-
currency-8d0bf9515ee1?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Christos Richard Hatjoullis - aka
OUTERGROUND](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*sevxcLQpDm0biljCf5aCOQ.jpeg)](/@christos?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Christos Richard Hatjoullis - aka OUTERGROUND

](/@christos?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

## The 1,000 ETH video Art Piece by OUTERGROUND

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*EfDh8j4fTjod79UOrqPFfg.jpeg)](/@christos/the-1-000-eth-
video-art-piece-by-outerground-41c448ddb4cd?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----265301183ae0--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
265301183ae0--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
265301183ae0--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
265301183ae0--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
265301183ae0--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----265301183ae0--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----265301183ae0--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40thelaoofficial%2Fthe-
end-of-ptsdao-a-walkthrough-of-the-lao-and-proposal-
process-265301183ae0&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![The
LAO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/2*X_8LYIcePYE1DMhi8vcHFw.png)](/@thelaoofficial)

[

## The LAO

](/@thelaoofficial)

608 Followers

A For-Profit, Limited Liability Autonomous Organization, powered by
@OpenLawOfficial.

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F71c8a361b148&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40thelaoofficial%2Fthe-
end-of-ptsdao-a-walkthrough-of-the-lao-and-proposal-
process-265301183ae0&newsletterV3=61217eadf32d&newsletterV3Id=71c8a361b148&user=The+LAO&userId=61217eadf32d&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Kieran Parker-
Moroney](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*lrvv3J_vnH3yXuVZbv0yCw.jpeg)](/@kpmoroney?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------a9ee4624_b74f_4392_ac19_6d30ad7f3752-------)

[Kieran Parker-Moroney

](/@kpmoroney?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
a9ee4624_b74f_4392_ac19_6d30ad7f3752-------)

in

[New Finance VC

](https://medium.com/new-finance-vc?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------a9ee4624_b74f_4392_ac19_6d30ad7f3752-------)

## DeFi Dives: Barnbridge

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*TJiDkiTC9MZw5N55)](/new-
finance-vc/defi-dives-barnbridge-6b592ba01713?source=read_next_recirc---------
0---------------------a9ee4624_b74f_4392_ac19_6d30ad7f3752-------)

[[![Alex
Shibu](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*whmc_doZN0cdaAesKxOIsQ.png)](/@alexshibu?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------a9ee4624_b74f_4392_ac19_6d30ad7f3752-------)

[Alex Shibu

](/@alexshibu?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
a9ee4624_b74f_4392_ac19_6d30ad7f3752-------)

## wEb3 & why DAOs the tech of tomorrow?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*L7nVbYcZlqAehk_x)](/@alexshibu/web3-why-
daos-the-tech-of-tomorrow-4b46ba95ca69?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------a9ee4624_b74f_4392_ac19_6d30ad7f3752-------)

[[![Solanews](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*oZXsELB0883raR4Qwy2kZQ.png)](/@solanews?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------a9ee4624_b74f_4392_ac19_6d30ad7f3752-------)

[Solanews

](/@solanews?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
a9ee4624_b74f_4392_ac19_6d30ad7f3752-------)

## Strata Secures $1.5 Million

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*nEn499wlCr1k8rPXCfXjMg.jpeg)](/@solanews/strata-
secures-1-5-million-5e952e107f34?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------a9ee4624_b74f_4392_ac19_6d30ad7f3752-------)

[[![mtitus6](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*HkldqC-5HD7U4Z20ge5CgA.png)](/@mtitus6?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------a9ee4624_b74f_4392_ac19_6d30ad7f3752-------)

[mtitus6

](/@mtitus6?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
a9ee4624_b74f_4392_ac19_6d30ad7f3752-------)

## Uniswap Stable Pools

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*DZxvUiL2tnKQv3A0ReCq0Q.png)](/@mtitus6/uniswap-
stable-pools-d78aa66fd12a?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------a9ee4624_b74f_4392_ac19_6d30ad7f3752-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

