[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# The Convergence Tracker 1.0

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

The Convergence Tracker 1.0

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

# Introducing The Convergence Tracker 1.0

## By Lawrence Lundy

Posted by Lawrence Lundy - June 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

### TL:DR

  1. **Convergence Stack** : We believe our incubated investments form part of a synergistic stack of technologies that when combined deliver the vision of Web 3.
  2. **Filling Gaps** : There are many other exciting later stage projects that complete this vision which we didn’t incubate but that are needed to complete the vision.
  3. **Tracker** : We will now publicly follow these ‘best in class’ projects from across The Convergence Stack through an open tracker (detailed below)
  4. **Skin in the Game:** For the tracker to have a meaning we need to have skin in the game so we have been taking positions in the listed tokens 
  5. **Acceleration Services** : Because of their importance to The Stack we will optionally extend our advisory practice to support networks listed in ‘The Tracker’ through an Acceleration offering which will offer to integrate them into The Stack and accelerate their development 

### The Stack is more than just who we advise

Recently we published an OSI-like framework [The Convergence
Stack](https://outlierventures.io/the-convergence-stack/), (‘The Stack’) to
help developers contextualise the web3 landscape and give insight into our
vision of the decentralized future. We did this because we have increasingly
come to see our investments not just as a portfolio but rather a synergistic
stack of protocols and businesses that when combined promise a new data
economy. An economy with the potential to unbundle the dominant platform
monopolies of today’s Web and decentralize ‘The Cloud’ computing
infrastructure. This new data economy will put the sovereignty of users and
their data at its core whilst more equitably distributing value across the web
stakeholders.

The initial version of The Stack listed our own advisory projects and
investments as well as other projects in which we didn’t have a direct
position, but nevertheless felt were category leaders. Now we want to go one
step further by both publicly tracking and directly taking positions in all
projects listed in The Stack via something we are calling the Convergence
Tracker (‘The Tracker’).

### Tracker 1.0

The Tracker is designed to be selective and curated rather than comprehensive.
At its core, it is about tracking the best in class technologies and
respective token economies. It is absolutely not meant to be based on short to
mid-term financial trading performance but instead on where real network value
will accrue on a venture time horizon.

As described, The Tracker contains our advisory and investment projects as
well as publicly tradable tokens listed on exchanges today. In order to decide
on the projects that should be included in the tracker, we have drawn upon our
five years of experience in the market and done an assessment of each 18
technology markets in the convergence stack from applications to UX to
middleware to ledgers. We picked these projects after analysis across a range
of factors including technology, crypto-economics, users/growth, market,
competitive landscape, and execution.

In addition to our nine advisory projects and investments: Fetch.ai, Agoric,
Haja Networks, IOTA, Ocean Protocol, Sovrin, SEED, plus our continued long-
term holdings in Bitcoin and Ethereum, we are adding a further six projects to
the tracker: Rightmesh, Golem, FOAM, Chainlink, Cosmos, and Aragon.

![The Convergence Tracker 1.0 Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/Screen-Shot-2019-06-17-at-17.42.51.png)



### Networking

**Rightmesh**

5 billion people now have a mobile phone. 4 billion have a smartphone. There
are about 7.5 billion people on earth so very roughly there are 3.5 billion
people globally that aren’t yet connected to the Internet. Pushing down the
price of handsets below $20 dollars with KaiOS will bring a few more million.
But we are reaching the point where connecting people is an issue for
available Internet connectivity more than it is one of costs. Google and
Facebook have experimented with balloons and drones to increase Internet
usage, and Governments have subsidised infrastructure and connectivity costs
around the world. The challenge of ‘connecting the unconnected’ isn’t one of
understanding or business focus, it’s one of the costs. Mobile connectivity is
expensive to provide and maintain. The capex costs associated with installing
and maintaining a wireless network across countries is vast let alone
deploying the latest network protocols every 10 years or so. The challenge of
getting everyone in the world connected is expensive data and a lack of access
in isolated and rural areas.

Rightmesh is making it cheaper, faster and easier for people to connect to the
Internet. Using a combination of networking protocols like WiFi, Bluetooth
2.0, and Wi-Fi Direct, combined with switching technologies and crypto-tokens,
Rightmesh is enabling peer-to-peer connectivity. This reduces the need for and
cost of connectivity infrastructure at the edges of the network. The key new
feature is the use of crypto-tokens to incentivise smartphone owners to
provide connectivity to their peers. We think this combination of mesh
networking and a token-based incentive system is compelling enough to be
integrated by mobile network operators at the edge of the network and in high-
density areas. But more importantly, it provides a way for billions of people
to come online. Rightmesh is the category leader today and we expect mobile
connectivity to increasingly become peer-to-peer and decentralized.

### Bridges

**Cosmos**

Today blockchains are relatively slow, lack flexibility, hard to build, and
difficult to connect together. The speed problem is being tackled via
sharding, different consensus mechanisms, numerous new blockchains, and layer
2 solutions. The lack of flexibility is being addressed as projects seek to
deliver execution environments that are optimized for use cases as with
Fetch.ai, Kadena, Tezos, and Coda for example, or by moving to web assembly as
with Ethereum 2.0, Dfinity, Polkadot, etc. Blockchains are still relatively
challenging to build because developers are forced to build all three layers:
networking, consensus, and application as well as a lack of SDKs. Finally,
blockchains don’t currently have a standardized way to communicate and as
blockchain usage grows we will suffer from the same walled garden problems as
we faced in Web2.

Cosmos is an ambitious attempt at building an ecosystem of blockchains that
can scale and interoperate with each other. Using Tendermint, the Cosmos SDK,
and the [Inter-Blockchain Communication
protocol](https://blog.cosmos.network/developer-deep-dive-cosmos-
ibc-5855aaf183fe) (IBC), Cosmos offers developers a way to quickly build and
deploy flexible blockchains that can be optimized for specific applications
while benefiting from the security guarantees of a larger network. Ultimately,
we think Cosmos has the opportunity to enable developers to just focus on
solving customer problems rather than having to spend time and money on all of
the underlying infrastructures.

### Query

**FOAM**

Today much of our critical infrastructure from the aviation, energy,
logistics, and communication networks rely on accurate position, navigation
and timing (PNT). Currently, the primary source of distributed and accurate
timing information at least in the West is through the Global Positioning
System (GPS). However, GPS’s space-based signals are low-power and
unencrypted, making them susceptible to both intentional and unintentional
disruption. As the deployment of mobile sensors grows and the physical world
is overlaid with digital information with augmented reality, we expect to see
accurate PNT to become ever more critical. Collecting Pokemon in the park
needs rough location data, but what about when collecting unlocks a smart
contract and tokens are generated? We believe there is an opportunity to
deliver PNT in a ground-up, crowdsourced, and censorship-resistant way.

FOAM is providing the tools to enable a crowdsourced map and decentralized
location services. As with any data that comes from the real-world, an
incentive system is required to encourage data to be submitted and for people
to be incentivized to prove that the data is accurate. This is the fundamental
problem to solve for all oracles in the cryptos space, and FOAM has designed a
system that is designed specifically to validate location data using a novel
proof-of-location consensus mechanism. The hope is that if FOAM can generate a
trusted map of the world, a whole new breed of location-based permissionless
applications can be built quickly and cheaply. We expect something like FOAM
to be foundational to an open augmented reality environment and an important
component of utilising location data for the Stack.

### Compute

**Golem**

We believe one of the key characteristics of Web3 infrastructure will be the
move from a client-server model or a peer-to-peer (P2P) model, in which peers
are both suppliers and consumers of resources. The Convergence Stack sees all-
digital infrastructure from file storage, to databases, to networking, to
compute moving to a P2P model. P2P computing isn’t new, it was popularized by
Napster in the early 00s, but limitations in the technology made client-server
a more efficient model for the delivery of Web, and especially mobile
applications. As Moore’s Law continued its march through the 00s and 10s,
smartphones today contain more computing power than servers back in the days
of Napster. By 2020 that will have roughly 24 billion Internet-connected
devices with computation capabilities. We now have billions of more devices
with unprecedented computing power.

For peer-to-peer file storage, there is IPFS. For peer-to-peer databases there
is OrbitDB. For peer-to-peer computing there is Golem. Building a protocol
that connects PCs, mobile, data centers, and any computing resource, Golem is
creating a decentralized, P2P, on-demand, computing utility that means
developers and users do not have to rely on cloud providers to rent expensive
computing power. Starting with the CGI rendering application that requires a
lot of power, Golem is proving that a p2p compute utility can be faster,
cheaper and more reliable than a cloud provider. Golem utilises its native
crypto-token, GNT, to build a marketplace between providers and consumers of
computing power in an attempt to use a public price to allocate resources more
effectively. We believe some of the most transformative Web3 applications like
machine learning and data trading will require an underlying compute utility
that is decentralized and peer-to-peer, and Golem is currently the category
leader.

### Middleware

**Chainlink**

For decentralized systems to be useful, we need to get data in and out. Unlike
centralized web services, decentralized applications can’t just pull data from
anywhere. The data in blocks on the blockchain has been mutually agreed by
network participants, so any external data must go through a cryptographically
secure verification process before being used in a smart contract. This is the
realm of oracles or trusted data feeds. But connecting smart contracts to data
inputs through a single node creates the same problem which smart contracts
themselves seek to avoid, a single point of failure. Different projects are
targeting particular data such as FOAM with location, but we believe there is
a requirement for a more general purpose decentralized oracle network that can
be used to connect any smart contracts to external data sources and APIs in a
tamper-proof, secure and reliable way.

Chainlink can be considered both middleware and query in the Convergence Stack
and has built a network that enables smart contracts to get provably secure
access to data feeds, APIs and payments. The network does this by connecting
on-chain smart contract to chainlink nodes. These nodes are paid for the work
they perform collecting and transmitting data from external APIs. It is still
early days in the development of the oracle network and API access but the
company has some early traction with the likes of SWIFT, Zeppelin OS, and
Request Network that bodes well for the teams' ability to acquire customers.
Building out a decentralized oracle network is a huge technical, customer
acquisition, and incentive design and game theory challenge. But for web3 apps
to be truly useful we must get accurate and verifiable data into smart
contracts from the real world. Chainlink has the opportunity to build a
foundational piece of infrastructure for The Stack.

**Aragon**

Organisations are for the majority of the world challenging to incorporate and
set up. The process is often long, unnecessarily complex, and costly. Running
an organisation is also still a very manual and time-consuming process. Board
votes, taking payment and paying suppliers, much of an organisations time is
wasted running the organisation rather than serving the customers.
Blockchains, smart contracts, crypto-tokens, and other decentralized tools,
might for the first time since the creation of the corporation with limited
liability in 1612. This organisational innovation demands new models of
borderless, virtual decentralized governance to allocate digital resources and
assets.

Aragon is building a platform for the creation and management of digital
organisations, or more specifically decentralized autonomous organisations
(DAOs). Using Ethereum smart contracts and IPFS, Aragon allows anybody to set
up a digital organisation in minutes. A company interface allows ownership to
be allocated by assigning DAO-specific tokens, payments to be made and
received, and votes to be cast. This is just the beginning, apps are already
in development for things like payroll, data and code management. The Aragon
project is still early and can’t yet compete with traditional organisational
registration for the vast majority of people. But the benefits of going
blockchain-first will start to become comparable as crypto adoption grows and
more people become comfortable interacting with chains and tokens. Aragon
could be the platform enabling the next Xero, Box, and Asana to be built all
utilising all underlying protocols of The Stack.

### Evolving The Tracker

We will continue to add new tokens as projects go live or remove them when it
is clearly a project is not living up to its promise based on an open
criteria. There are many projects that are currently still private that we are
closely following and believe could be best-in-class, and expect to add them
once they are publicly available. For example, we are keeping a close eye on
Polkadot, NyCypher, Starkware, and Keep Network to name just a few.

In some areas, there may be seemingly conflicting positions for example in the
ledger market. We believe whilst the market is still small there is plenty of
room for growth and specialization as networks evolve and actual usage becomes
apparent. And because the market is still comparatively early, some projects
will execute faster than others and begin to win markets the tracker will
literally track that development.

These are strategic and long-term positions and we will apply an internal
weighting which we will periodically review.. Because we are deploying our own
capital and not that of third-party investors, we have the luxury of evolving
this model as the market matures, something we intend to open and share with
the ecosystem and may over time productise.

### Opening our advisory practice to the wider ecosystem

We can’t influence networks where we aren’t an early advisor or investor in
the same way as those we have advised over several years and/or where we hold
a board seat. But it is our intention to begin an open dialogue with projects
and communities we believe are building crucial protocols and technologies to
see if we can support them through our advisory practice to address their
unique challenges.

Because The Tracker will include projects both with and without our advisory
side by side we will endeavour to make a clear distinction between projects in
which we are an official advisor in the [Portfolio
Section](https://outlierventures.io/portfolio/) of our website. We intend to
be long term holders and supporters of the projects in the tracker. Will we be
regularly assessing the market and network to inform the selection criteria
and any changes that need to be made. As always with our work, we will do this
in a transparent and open way.

All projects listed in The Convergence Tracker will have the opportunity to
work with us to be directly integrated into The Stack both technically and
operationally so they can collaborate with its protocols and ecosystem of
corporations, developers and academic communities. They will also have the
opportunity to leverage the venture platform we have developed over the past
five years through our advisory practice which includes a range of services
required for a web3 network including crypto-economics and governance,
corporate customer acquisition, developer relations, and community building.
We hope over time the value of being listed in The Tracker becomes not just a
point of pride but a powerful way to grow the network.

### What next?

Over the coming months, we intend to provide a more detailed analysis of the
protocols, networks, and products in The Tracker with recommendations about
how we think it can be improved. Something we hope leads us to work more
closely with the teams behind the tech through our advisory practice.

Equally, we will begin to open up how we measure ‘network health’ to help
educate the market in how to understand the real fundamentals of understanding
price both generically and specific the networks featured in The Tracker.

As ever we continue to do this with you out in the open.



_This article is for information purposes only and does not constitute
investment advice. This article does not amount to an invitation or inducement
to buy or sell an investment nor does it solicit any such offer or invitation
in any jurisdiction._

_In all cases, readers should conduct their own investigation and analysis of
the data in the article. All statements of opinion and/or belief contained in
this article and all views expressed and all projections, forecasts or
statements relating to expectations regarding future events represent Outlier
Ventures Operation Limited own assessment and interpretation of information
available as at the date of this article._

___No responsibility or liability is accepted by Outlier Ventures Operations
Limited or Sapia Partners LLP for reliance on the contents of this article._

_Outlier Ventures is an Appointed Representative of Sapia Partners LLP, a firm
authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)._

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

