[ Woobull ](https://woobull.com)

  * [About](https://woobull.com/about/)
  * [Charts](http://charts.woobull.com/)
  * [Articles](https://woobull.com/)
  * [→ Research](https://woobull.com/tag/research/)
  * [→ Infographics](https://woobull.com/tag/infographic/)
  * [→ Humour](https://woobull.com/tag/humour/)
  * [→ Bitcoin](https://woobull.com/tag/bitcoin/)
  * [→ Markets](https://woobull.com/tag/markets/)
  * [→ Dataviz](https://woobull.com/tag/data-visualisation/)
  * [→ Altcoins](https://woobull.com/tag/altcoins/)
  * [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNSawUAJPtGqnhpucPqdDrw)

[ ](https://twitter.com/woonomic "Twitter")

Subscribe

[Markets](https://woobull.com/tag/markets/)

# The two types of Altcoins, an investor's view

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

#### [Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/)

Nov 7, 2019 • 2 min read

This is a thread on altcoins, [first published on
Twitter](https://twitter.com/woonomic/status/1192316072533229568?s=20).

Altcoins are nuanced. We have:

  *  **Protocol coins**
  *  **Utility tokens**
  *  **Security tokens**
  *  **Non-fungible tokens**

But to an investor, there's only 2 types. **Oscillators** and
**Degenerators**.

You can spot them on this chart of the entire market.

![](https://woobull.com/content/images/2019/11/image.png)

The vast majority of alt-coins are **Degenerators**. Their price chart has a
measurable half-life, like radioactive decay. Plotted on a log chart, it's a
straight line down.

This one is Namecoin, a promising coin of its era, there's over 2000 examples
like this.

![](https://woobull.com/content/images/2019/11/image-1.png)

Only a small handful are **Oscillators**.

![](https://woobull.com/content/images/2019/11/image-2.png)

Oscillators are proving store of value (SoV) properties. To qualify they need
to keep up with BTCUSD gains. To find them, plot their BTC value. It must
oscillate around a horizontal line, for at least one full bull-bear cycle
(around 4yrs). More cycles are better.  
  
Let me bring up this Oscillator. It's DOGE, a coin that was created as a joke,
it has had no active development for years. It's a humour fork of Bitcoin
offering no technical innovation.

![](https://woobull.com/content/images/2019/11/image-4.png)

And it's a freaking oscillator.

DOGE achieved SoV because of Lindy Effect. It's listed on nearly all
exchanges, it's supported by most wallets, it has a liquid market.

Note I didn't say it has cutting edge technology, scaleability, fancy smart
contracts, governance, or has solved sharding. I point this out to mock the
common thought train that you need innovation and cutting edge tech to build
value in your coin. These are monetary instruments, they build value with
economic network effects.

Here's an interesting one...

![](https://woobull.com/content/images/2019/11/image-3.png)

It's DCRBTC. It's at a critical stage coming onto completing it's very first
full bull-bear cycle, it needs to emerge cleanly holding it's horizontal
oscillation against BTC. Only then can we say it's achieving SoV properties.

If you plan on being in altcoins here's my rules of engagement:

  1. It's critical to determine a Oscillator from a Degenerator.
  2. Oscillators are good to enter and exit to stack more BTC.
  3. Never HODL a Degen, period. GTFO.
  4. Be careful on the coins younger than one full cycle.

## Sign up for more like this.

Enter your email Subscribe

[

## Supply Shock, predicting price by quantifying intent to buy and sell

IntroductionIn any market, price is driven by demand and supply. This is a
fundamental. The most obvious way of seeing this is in the bid and asks
between buyers and sellers. A more nuanced way would be to wave a magic wand
and gauge the intent of investors before the

](/quantifying-supply-shock/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Aug 10, 2021 • 4 min read

[

## Introducing the Difficulty Ribbon, signaling the best times to buy Bitcoin

Introducing the Bitcoin Difficulty Ribbon. When the ribbon compresses, or
flips negative, these are the best times to buy Bitcoin. The ribbon consists
of simple moving averages on mining difficulty so we can easily see the rate
of change in difficulty. How it the Difficulty Ribbon worksThis visualisation
of network

](/introducing-the-difficulty-ribbon-the-best-times-to-buy-bitcoin/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Aug 1, 2019 • 2 min read

[

## When did Bitcoin's investment era begin? A study using NVT.

For those familiar with NVT Ratio, the data from the early years comes off
very skewed, sometimes written off as noisy rubbish data. To answer the
mystery of early NVT moonage, come with me on a trip down memory lane and
visit the transactional data of Bitcoin's early years. How

](/bitcoins-early-investment-era-under-nvt-ratio/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Apr 13, 2019 • 4 min read

[Woobull](https://woobull.com) (C) 2022

[Powered by Ghost](https://ghost.org/)

