#  [ Unenumerated ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/)

An unending variety of topics

## Friday, July 03, 2015

###  The Greek financial mess; and some ways Bitcoin might help

Many years of government debt buildup in Greece has ultimately resulted, in
the last few days, in a political and financial maelstrom.  The political
maelstrom includes demonstrations in the run up to a referendum on obscure
debt-restructuring provisions to be held this Sunday (July 5th). This article
focuses on  financial problems and some potential practical steps that can be
taken to mitigate them. The imposition of capital controls is a disaster for a
modern trade-driven economy, a catastrophe which however digital technology,
and in particular the digital currency bitcoin (which given the Greek
environment usually must involve direct use of the Bitcoin blockchain), has
the potential to mitigate.  This article will explore some of the severe
practical problems that capital controls are causing Greek individuals and
businesses, and suggest some potential bitcoin solutions, many of which could
also be applied to other countries with some similar financial problems and
controls such as Argentina and Venezuela.  These aren't solutions that can be
applied in time to help with the current 6 days of capital controls, but could
substantially help some Greeks and some aspects of the Greek economy if some
version of these controls is continued for months or years.  
  
At root the Greek financial problem is that the Greek government has spent
more, compared to the GDP generated by its economy, than the vast majority of
other governments.  It has borrowed copious sums to do so, falling ever deeper
into debt.  Here is its payment schedule:  
  
[![](//1.bp.blogspot.com/-aQtH8rYRMHE/VZcvy0FxSNI/AAAAAAAAAUM/sRrtDuWAmUA/s640/GreekCrisisDebtSchedule.jpg)](//1.bp.blogspot.com/-aQtH8rYRMHE/VZcvy0FxSNI/AAAAAAAAAUM/sRrtDuWAmUA/s1600/GreekCrisisDebtSchedule.jpg)  
---  
_And you thought your student loan debt was bad_  
  
  
The only place the Greek government has left to go for money to fund its
ongoing expenditures and pay these debts is Greek banks.  Fearing capital
controls and "haircuts" (government confiscation of certain fractions of bank
deposits), many Greeks in recent months have, quite rationally, started
withdrawing money out of their banks and sending it overseas.  More trusting
Greeks kept their savings in their banks, with the result that, with the
imposition of capital controls last Monday, they have been locked out of their
savings, and plans for "haircuts" of 30% or more have been reported (If
somebody lopped off 30% of your head, you'd have more than a haircut).  
  
When capital controls were first rumored and then announced on Sunday, vast
lines formed at ATMs as Greeks rushed to rescue what little of their life
savings that they could:  
  
  
---  
  
  
[![](//3.bp.blogspot.com/-r6Nd21_o7Fw/VZcvybPCu5I/AAAAAAAAAUE/dHpz8jBWWZk/s320/GreeceATMLineThessaloniki.jpg)](//3.bp.blogspot.com/-r6Nd21_o7Fw/VZcvybPCu5I/AAAAAAAAAUE/dHpz8jBWWZk/s1600/GreeceATMLineThessaloniki.jpg)  
---  
_ATM line, Thessaloniki_  
  
  
[![](//3.bp.blogspot.com/-b9U6VSgw7KM/VZcvyaf1WwI/AAAAAAAAAUA/u3avRbCyJqE/s320/GreekCrisisATMLineLarissaCity.jpg)](//3.bp.blogspot.com/-b9U6VSgw7KM/VZcvyaf1WwI/AAAAAAAAAUA/u3avRbCyJqE/s1600/GreekCrisisATMLineLarissaCity.jpg)  
---  
_ATM line, Larissa City_|  
|  
|  
|  
  
  
  
  
On Tuesday, the Greek government defaulted on its scheduled debt payment to
the International Monetary Fund (IMF).  
  
Under capital controls, ATM withdrawals from Greek bank accounts are now
limited to 60 euros a day.  Debit cards can still be used for payments within
the country, but the money simply gets transferred from one frozen bank
account to another.  As a result many businesses no longer accept debit cards,
and many more are demanding a substantial premium price (in  at least one
business, double) for debit cards (transferred bank balances) versus hard
cash.  There is a growing shortage of such cash; as a result some stores are
paying their suppliers in private "scrip", which can be used by the supplier's
workers to purchase goods from the issuing store. (more on this below).  
  
Use of credit and debit cards to pay out of the country is banned and
effectively blocked, resulting in a near-complete freeze-out of Greeks from
Internet commerce. This restriction, along with the controls resulting in
Greeks being excluded from the pan-European money settlement system, means
that Greek businesses can't pay for imports.  Many shipments into the country
have been halted as a result. (The government plan is to create a whitelist of
politically approved cases in which such payments for imports will be
unblocked).  
  
A crucial feature of store-issued scrip is that it literally circulates
through a complete closed cycle: store --> supplier --> workers --> store.
Such specific cycles are a pattern that is commonly found when currencies are
primitive or newly emerging, and every Bitcoin marketer and evangelist should
be familiar with them.  
  
  
[![](//1.bp.blogspot.com/-g9QY0zdTViY/VZcxqRD0UCI/AAAAAAAAAUY/kEQ9ScIxQSw/s320/KulaRing.gif)](//1.bp.blogspot.com/-g9QY0zdTViY/VZcxqRD0UCI/AAAAAAAAAUY/kEQ9ScIxQSw/s1600/KulaRing.gif)  
---  
_The[kula ring](http://szabo.best.vwh.net/kula.html), two specific cycles
(counter-circulating cycles of shell money) allowing exchange of seasonal
goods in the precolonial South Pacific_  
  
It doesn't help much to sell bitcoin to isolated individuals: as a mere store
of value its volatility is much greater than most existing currencies; as an
investment it only makes sense as a tiny high-risk fraction of one's
portfolio.  Bitcoin does have some political-affinity and status value in
developed countries; by contrast in many developing countries and in countries
under financial crisis such as Greece, there are urgent needs bitcoin
potentially can address.  In terms of these needs Bitcoin is mainly useful as
a way to send money across borders for investment in more stable assets
overseas, and to substitute for cash or other substitute currencies in a
money-starved environment.  
  
To have value as a medium of exchange, bitcoin must be taken up by a community
of people who already frequently trade with each other,  and who have a strong
need to use it in these trades. It is especially important to market to the
links in the cycle that have the strongest negotiating leverage with the
others (in the case of Greek the Greek store scrip cycle, the store and its
larger suppliers).  The link in the cycle with the greatest incentives to
switch to bitcoin here are likely the store's suppliers, because they don't
fully trust the store, nor the underlying currency, euro or post-euro, that is
the "O" in an IOU, but are participating in the scrip because, sans bitcoin,
they have no other choice.  
  
In bitcoin specific cycles create other cost savings.  Almost everywhere they
economize on the increasingly high KYC/AML (know your customer/anti-money-
laundering) costs of going through a fiat-bitcoin exchange.  What's more, in a
capital controls environment like Greece specific cycles avoid the capital
controls that would be imposed on a Greek-based fiat-bitcoin exchange, and
avoid the need nearly all Greek customers using out-of-country exchanges would
have to futilely try to tap into their frozen bank accounts in order to
purchase bitcoin. Bitcoin will not, contrary to some feverish news reporting,
help Greeks get money out of their frozen bank accounts.  
  
But bitcoin does have great potential to help in less obvious ways: for one
thing, as a superior (not vulnerable to trust in an issuing store, and in any
currency underlying an IOU) substitute for the emerging store scrips.  For
another, it could help greatly with the severe cross-border commerce issues
that are emerging.  Exporters, including freelancers working over the
Internet, can bring bitcoin into the country, thereby avoiding earning wages
that get deposited to frozen bank accounts (per Greek lore, be wary of a cave
with many tracks coming in but few coming out). Importers can pay for goods
with bitcoin while other electronic payment channels (European money
settlements, Paypal, and credit & debit cards when paying foreign businesses,
etc.) remain frozen. Again specific cycles must be set up: isolated marketing
to just exporters or importers will be far less effective than organizing
existing supply chains that involve both.  
  
There are likely many other, mostly highly non-obvious, niches in which
bitcoin, and other cryptocurrencies, and smart contract platforms could play a
quite valuable role in capital-controlled and other financially handicapped
countries.  
  
Bitcoin is not easy to learn, either conceptually or in setting up businesses
and individuals with the software (and preferably also the secure hardware) to
accept it. This is especially the case in a capital controls climate where the
traditional bitcoin exchanges and retail payment companies, with their
consumer-friendly front ends, as they normally operate in developed countries,
likely can't effectively operate. To take advantage of bitcoin many Greeks
will have to use the Bitcoin blockchain directly. So it's too late for bitcoin
to help much with the current 6 days of bank closure,  but once the learning
curves have been surmounted, the participants in specific cycles educated,
bitcoin has great potential to address likely many ongoing problems with
capital control, in Greece as long as they continue in various forms, and in
many other parts of the world where such financial restrictions designed for a
pre-digital era have been imposed.  
  
[Update: various minor edits: the first version was rather rough, sorry :-)]

Posted by  [ Nick Szabo ](https://www.blogger.com/profile/16820399856274245684
"author profile") at  [7:53 PM](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-
greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html "permanent link") [
![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon18_email.gif)
](https://www.blogger.com/email-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=6216506728382908250 "Email Post") [
![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon18_edit_allbkg.gif)
](https://www.blogger.com/post-
edit.g?blogID=17908317&postID=6216506728382908250&from=pencil "Edit Post")

[Email This](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=6216506728382908250&target=email "Email
This")[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=6216506728382908250&target=blog
"BlogThis!")[Share to Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=6216506728382908250&target=twitter "Share to
Twitter")[Share to Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=6216506728382908250&target=facebook "Share to
Facebook")[Share to Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=6216506728382908250&target=pinterest "Share to
Pinterest")

#### 23 comments:

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

Anonymous said...

    

Great post, Nick. Do you have any data on existing closed trade cycles using
Bitcoin? Do such mythical creatures exist in any economies?  
  
By the way, I believe there's a typo in here that required a second reading to
resolve: "Bitcoin does have some political-affinity and status value in
developed countries; by contrast in many developed countries and in countries
under financial crisis such as Greece, there are urgent needs bitcoin
potentially can address."  
  
Should the second instance of "developed" be "developing" here?

     [ 2:13 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1436001218768#c3962279917240342838 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=3962279917240342838 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

Anonymous said...

    

So many mistakes in punctuation/spelling I now realize you aren't actually
Satoshi!

     [ 2:34 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1436002466139#c4131422242202665515 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=4131422242202665515 "Delete Comment")

[![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)
](http://stat.columbia.edu/~jakulin/)

[Aleks Jakulin](http://stat.columbia.edu/%7Ejakulin/) said...

    

This connects your own research very nicely with Bernard Lietaer's ecosystem
research. The fundamental point of difference is that you rely on a single
"currency" \-- whereas Lietaer argues for multiple currencies, an ecosystem of
currencies. While the theoretical articles are very technical
http://capitalinstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/12/Quantifying-Ecosystems-
Sustainability-Ulan-Eco-Complexity-Publ-Mar-2009.pdf \- it might be easier to
just listen to a presentation http://www.lietaer.com/2015/02/bernard-lietaer-
why-we-need-a-monetary-ecosystem-inria-2014/.

     [ 2:35 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1436002524106#c950244880796412585 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=950244880796412585 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

Anonymous said...

    

Great article Nick.  
  
You touch on Bitcoin's unique roll in offering for the first time in recent
history the private citizen or business, the ability to control one of the
corners on the 'Trillemma of International Finance'. This control would of
course be contrary to the will of a nation's central banks considering the
sole purpose that they exsist. This is perhaps one of the most overlooked &
powerful features in Bitcoin's design. With a nation's gate left open on
capital, centralists will initially be left with only 1 of 2 options out of
the 3, either:  
  
1) Offer a fixed exchange rate with Bitcoin.  
  
or  
  
2) Offer a floating exchange rate with Bitcoin.  
  
I say initially because I believe 'Gresham's Law' will ensure this is only a
transitionary arrangement before Bitcoin takes over & locks the Trillema down
to a 'de facto' fixed exchange rate (a bitcoin for a bitcoin), & of course the
free flow of capital.  
  
A new gold standard by any other definition, just this time the 'golds' is
teleportable & can be audited at any time by any regular Joe.  
  
Regards, Emanance

     [ 4:28 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1436009324746#c2314221643260892430 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=2314221643260892430 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/03537633683212953446)

[Support Me](https://www.blogger.com/profile/03537633683212953446) said...

    

Educating periphery economies within the Euro zone would prepare many
businesses from being locked out of e-commerce.  
  
Consumers and SME businesses of these economies, Spain and Portugal in
particular, should begin looking at a plan B sooner rather than later.  
  
Capital controls in Cyprus was the first warning. Greece is the second
warning.

     [ 5:48 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1436014121736#c1606984465005656637 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1606984465005656637 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/02004282752334460717)

[CurmudgeonlyTroll](https://www.blogger.com/profile/02004282752334460717)
said...

    

The point of using the store scrip is to avoid using scarce hard currency. A
feature of Bitcoin is a hard currency, with scarcity strongly enforced. To the
extent the store has to give up hard currency to start using Bitcoin, that
completely defeats the purpose of using Bitcoin.  
  
One could set up an alternative currency and blockchain for this purpose.
However, for the principal risk, that the store devalues or goes bust,
blockchain doesn't have any advantage over paper scrip.  
  
Could help the store deal with potential counterfeiting, though.

     [ 6:13 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1436015606474#c5595424483789541483 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=5595424483789541483 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

Will M said...

    

"... as an investment it only makes sense as a tiny high-risk fraction of
one's portfolio."  
  
I disagree. Bitcoin is volatile, but how many mid-cap stocks do you know of
that have the same level of media exposure as bitcoin? I would argue that
bitcoin volatility is a byproduct of its tiny size vs its massive hype.  
  
Another point, most stocks risk going to zero not only if their customers
leave them, but if they get into regulatory or legal issues. On customers
leaving Bitcoin, it is shielded because of a network effect, while various alt
coin and 2nd layer schemes may try, there is no serious competitors who can do
what it does with its properties today. On regulatory or legal issues... this
is the one most missed by garden variety investment analysts, while services
using bitcoin may have the legal and regulatory risks, bitcoin is designed to
not have these risks. We spend a tremendous amount of time keeping it this way
too. Bottom line, it's been safe since August 2010, and orders of magnitude
more attention are paid to bitcoin's security now versus back then. I think
it's likely to long outlive many reading this, barring any extensions of the
human lifespan in the near future.  
  
I think bitcoin makes sense not as a high-risk investment, but as an
uncorrelated asset class that can be used to reduce the risk of denominating
too much of one's portfolio in fiat denominated assets. I look at it as an
alternate form of gold and silver that is uncorrelated to precious metals as
well. Physical bullion may have less risk, but bitcoin is certainly lower risk
than ETFs or other vehicles that do not give investors direct custody of
assets. I think it absolutely has a place next to gold and silver; these types
of assets can serve as excellent fire insurance when they comprise 3-5% of
everyones' portfolio.

     [ 7:55 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1436021744130#c4639199005920366004 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=4639199005920366004 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/11211631950049431513)

[gruvr](https://www.blogger.com/profile/11211631950049431513) said...

    

What information do we have on bitcoin 'ambassadors' who may be working in
Greece right now to set up the kind of btc-as-scrip cycles discussed here?
Maybe the bitcoin community could set up some kind of online resource to help
greeks, perhaps even providing our own loans - or donations - to provide
initial liquidity for B2B cycles to get started? Perhaps some large bitcoin
angel interested in emerging economies - Draper comes to mind - could set up
such a resource, help rescue Greek B2B, and benefit the entire bitcoin
ecosystem in the process?  
  
so far, there's one bitcoin ATM, installed about a week ago, at a book store.
It's getting zero interest, according to the store owner.

     [ 8:34 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1436024064770#c1579233545674108011 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1579233545674108011 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

nick said...

    

Anonymous #1: yes that should be "by contrast in many _developing_ countries",
thanks.

     [ 9:05 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1436025912510#c4021156271133158806 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=4021156271133158806 "Delete Comment")

[![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)
![]()](https://www.blogger.com/profile/12630608629576647426)

[PicNiK](https://www.blogger.com/profile/12630608629576647426) said...

    

Private currencies already appearing in Greece:
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11716318/Greeces-Yanis-
Varoufakis-prepares-for-economic-siege-as-companies-issue-private-
currencies.html

     [ 9:45 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1436028330270#c7013809629644257182 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=7013809629644257182 "Delete Comment")

[![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)
![]()](https://www.blogger.com/profile/12630608629576647426)

[PicNiK](https://www.blogger.com/profile/12630608629576647426) said...

    

Private currencies already appearing in Greece:
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11716318/Greeces-Yanis-
Varoufakis-prepares-for-economic-siege-as-companies-issue-private-
currencies.html

     [ 9:45 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1436028358495#c7983799886331507610 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=7983799886331507610 "Delete Comment")

[![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)
![]()](https://www.blogger.com/profile/12630608629576647426)

[PicNiK](https://www.blogger.com/profile/12630608629576647426) said...

    

Private currencies already appearing in Greece:
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11716318/Greeces-Yanis-
Varoufakis-prepares-for-economic-siege-as-companies-issue-private-
currencies.html

     [ 9:45 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1436028359540#c8447456707562649817 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=8447456707562649817 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

Anonymous said...

    

"In bitcoin specific cycles create other cost savings" . . . ?

     [ 10:29 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1436030999144#c1832979360943935994 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1832979360943935994 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

Anonymous said...

    

bitcoin could do a lot for them but the country should go digital with
bitdrachma or drachmae they could use it for wages and all there
expenses.countries in south america should do the same but where can you use
bitcoin overthere nowhere only a few people are using it maybe they should
make there own cryptocurrency it,s better then print paper

     [ 2:35 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1436045724104#c2111804505864157993 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=2111804505864157993 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

Anonymous said...

    

The folks at I/O Digital are doing an amazing job of tackling some of nicks
concerns on bitcoin. The I/O Coin team is working and almost ready to release
a decentralized aliases system on their blockchain with instant transfers and
less than 30 seconds to get a 1st confirmation. People all over the world will
find it very easy to send and receive within a fully decentralized aliases
blockchain. People will also have the ability to store valuable documents and
notes. They are also working on gateways as point of entry to there blockchain
for fiat transfers. Check out their project www.iodigital.io and www.iocoin.io

     [ 5:11 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1436055117366#c7933144892733325501 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=7933144892733325501 "Delete Comment")

[![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif) ](https://bitsquare.io/)

[Manfred Karrer](https://bitsquare.io/) said...

    

"Many years of government debt buildup..." I know the article was not meant to
explain the reasons for the greek tragedy but I think the introducing
sentences are not representing adequately the complexity of what happened
during the period Greece joined the EU and the problems caused by the
strategies applied to this country (which are pretty similar to what happened
to other countries in the world when the IMF reached its destructive "helping"
hands).  
  
That article gives quite good overview:  
https://truthandsatire.wordpress.com/2015/07/03/greece-the-one-biggest-lie-
you-are-being-told-by-the-media/  
In Short: Greece did not fail on its own. It was made to fail.

     [ 5:43 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1436100223781#c3558222697865574905 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=3558222697865574905 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/17046522562803939443)

[Unknown](https://www.blogger.com/profile/17046522562803939443) said...

    

So you say that it is too late for Greeks to adopt Bitcoin to protect
themselves during the current crisis. If so, then this might be exactly the
right time for Spaniards to adopt Bitcoin to protect *themselves*.
Coincidentally, I'm going to be in Madrid next week! What companies,
organizations, or people are already active there that I could meet?

     [ 11:42 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1436164940973#c5987055230274565509 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=5987055230274565509 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/01103108612345229235)

[Unknown](https://www.blogger.com/profile/01103108612345229235) said...

    

Bitcoin was one of the first things I thought of, but aren't there scalability
issues?  
I was thinking of how many transactions/sec can be handled with the current
design, plus the amount of time and disk space necessary to be a full node
(granted not all will need this) is getting ridiculous.

     [ 11:30 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1436207425496#c9083395364152931011 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=9083395364152931011 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

Anonymous said...

    

Good afternoon Nick  
  
Do you think if Greece made the bitcoin into a reserve currency & Drachma.They
would be safe home and dry dumping the EU and the Euro behind them?

     [ 6:26 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1436361979197#c4771944224813023260 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=4771944224813023260 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

Anonymous said...

    

You might want to call conspiracy! But this article like 99% of the MSM has
been mislead into believing how this crisis happened. Yes Greece and many
socialist governments overspent. It that is not how the debt was accumulated.
It's was a bank job, banks pushed onto governments deriveratives that blew up,
then the Greek tax payers bailed them out, now the very same banks are asking
for their money back, it's disgusting right?  
  
http://www.globalresearch.ca/greece-the-one-biggest-lie-you-are-being-told-by-
the-media/5460508  

     [ 8:18 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1436411899428#c6702090238570036479 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=6702090238570036479 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/02400369194456388439)

[Unknown](https://www.blogger.com/profile/02400369194456388439) said...

    

Hello Nick, I thought you might find this critique very interesting. Powerful
arguments from economics and history, and what governments could do to defeat
Bitcoin: http://moraluniversal.com/en/why-bitcoin-cannot-win/

     [ 11:17 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1438021076503#c1716167769419169110 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1716167769419169110 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/02400369194456388439)

[Unknown](https://www.blogger.com/profile/02400369194456388439) said...

    

Hello Nick, I thought you might find this critique very interesting. Powerful
arguments from economics and history, and what governments could do to defeat
Bitcoin: http://moraluniversal.com/en/why-bitcoin-cannot-win/  
  
It would be great to hear your thoughts.

     [ 11:22 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1438021334120#c8356834864209987189 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=8356834864209987189 "Delete Comment")

[![](//www.blogger.com/img/blogger_logo_round_35.png)
](https://www.blogger.com/profile/02400369194456388439)

[Unknown](https://www.blogger.com/profile/02400369194456388439) said...

    

Hello Nick, I thought you would find this critique very interesting:
http://moraluniversal.com/en/why-bitcoin-cannot-win/  
  
Powerful arguments from economics and history - citing your work - and what
governments could do to defeat Bitcoin... Would be great to hear your
thoughts.

     [ 11:24 AM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html?showComment=1438021485438#c5452163500645399136 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=5452163500645399136 "Delete Comment")

[Post a
Comment](https://www.blogger.com/comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=6216506728382908250)

[Newer Post](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/10/minimizing-consumer-
worry.html "Newer Post") [Older
Post](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/small-game-fallacies.html
"Older Post") [Home](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/)

Subscribe to: [Post Comments
(Atom)](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/feeds/6216506728382908250/comments/default)

## Pages

  * [Home](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/)

## About Me

[ Nick Szabo ](https://www.blogger.com/profile/16820399856274245684)

    "A premier thinker about history, law and economics, and the lessons they have for security." -- Adam Shostack, [Emergent Chaos ](http://www.emergentchaos.com/archives/2005/12/nick_szabo_blog.html)   
  
"Szabo comes out with these essays that leave me in awe." -- [Brian
Dunbar](http://space4commerce.blogspot.com/2011/06/tab-clearing_14.html)  
  
"Reading material that is eclectic, challenging and endlessly fascinating."
\-- Sean McGrath,
[Propylon](http://seanmcgrath.blogspot.com/2004_05_09_seanmcgrath_archive.html)  
  
"Like most blogs worth my attention, this blog is updated only infrequently.
That is because the authors of blogs worth my attention only post when they
have something to say that is true, relevant and not already known by their
audience. Most of the human race does not have the skill to know when an idea
has these three properties. The skill is particularly rare in the fields of
politics and economics, which is why this blog is such a rare and valuable
thing." \-- [Richard Hollerith](http://dl4.jottit.com/)  
  

[View my complete
profile](https://www.blogger.com/profile/16820399856274245684)

## Blog Archive

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2018 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2018/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2018/03/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2017 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/03/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/02/) (2)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2016 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/03/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/02/) (1)

  * [ ▼ ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2015 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/10/) (1)
    * [ ▼ ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/) (1)
      * [The Greek financial mess; and some ways Bitcoin mi...](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/the-greek-financial-mess-and-some-ways.html)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2014 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/10/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/07/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2013 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/11/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/08/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/07/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2012 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/) (8)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/10/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/08/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/) (4)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2011 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/) (12)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/06/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/05/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/02/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/01/) (4)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2010 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/) (9)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/10/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/09/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/02/) (2)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2009 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/) (29)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/11/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/10/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/09/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/08/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/06/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/05/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/04/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/01/) (3)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2008 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/) (55)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/12/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/10/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/09/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/08/) (9)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/07/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/06/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/05/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/04/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/03/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/02/) (5)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/01/) (3)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2007 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/) (47)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/10/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/09/) (8)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/08/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/07/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/06/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/05/) (8)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/04/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/03/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/02/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/01/) (3)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2006 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/) (130)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/12/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/11/) (7)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/10/) (15)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/09/) (15)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/08/) (20)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/07/) (5)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/06/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/05/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/04/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/03/) (11)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/02/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/01/) (26)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2005 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/) (44)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/12/) (16)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/11/) (5)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/10/) (23)

|  
  
---|---  
  
Simple theme. Powered by [Blogger](https://www.blogger.com).

  *[7:53 PM]: 2015-07-03T19:53:00-07:00

