[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/feb574f7db22&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderUser&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![The
LAO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/2*X_8LYIcePYE1DMhi8vcHFw.png)](/@thelaoofficial?source=post_page
-----feb574f7db22--------------------------------)

[The LAO](/@thelaoofficial?source=post_page-----
feb574f7db22--------------------------------)

Follow

Apr 28, 2020

¬∑

4 min read

#  **üöÄThe LAO Launches üöÄ**

 _Membership to join_[ _The LAO_](http://thelao.io) _opens today, April 28,
2020 at 12 PM EST/ 9 AM PST / 6:00p CEST._

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*nWXIspjKFYpLXp8s)

Ethereum was started, in part, to rebuild the commercial world. In the wake of
the Great Recession, it became apparent to many in the technology community
that the world‚Äôs financial systems were broken. Wall Street ran amok and the
governmental response was lackluster, if not criminal.

Even before protesters occupied Wall Street, cypherpunks aimed to change the
orbit of the financial world using something more powerful: math and
technology. Bitcoin launched on the eve of bank bailout as a universal,
Internet-native currency that had no single owner. Ethereum followed in
Bitcoin‚Äôs footsteps, generalizing Bitcoin to create critical commercial
infrastructure that enables anyone from anywhere around the globe to create,
program, and pool assets.

From the beginning, the broad vision of Ethereum has not only been about
money. It‚Äôs also been about re-orienting how people work together. Blockchains
serve as a common reference point for people to vote, coordinate, and take
action together.

These facts sit at the core of DAOs. These decentralized organizations aim to
re-orient the way we work together by stripping away hierarchy in favor of
rigid smart contracts and radical transparency ‚Äî thus creating trust among the
untrustworthy.

Ethereum‚Äôs hope and promise has been intimately linked to DAOs. Ethereum broke
out, in part, due to the interest and excitement about The DAO. The DAO showed
the raw power of Ethereum to facilitate capital formation in ways that before
the launch of the blockchain were simply unfeasible.

The DAO experiment ended spectacularly, but the raw power of Ethereum as a
capital formation tool is too strong to dull. The Internet has several core
use cases, including rapid messaging and e-commerce. One of Ethereum‚Äôs core
use cases is capital formation. It‚Äôs dramatically more efficient than the
current aging and often corrupt systems we rely on today.

That‚Äôs why the vision and hope of DAOs has not been forgotten. Ethereum
developers around the globe have continued to plow forward to build this
future: DAO by DAO. They have worked to develop standard smart contracts to
build DAOs. They have toiled to make those smart contracts more secure and
robust and they have developed novel crypto-economic systems to create new
ways to fund projects and innovation.

Today, we throw another model for a DAO into the growing and increasingly
powerful Ethereum ecosystem: [The LAO](http://thelao.io). The LAO aims to push
Ethereum forward by making it possible for people to pool ether into a common
fund and invest that ether in hopes of making a profit. With The LAO we‚Äôre
taking the first steps to enable people from around the globe to support
projects that they love using the power of capitalism as an incentive.

The LAO is just the beginning. We‚Äôre aiming to build an ecosystem of DAOs to
rebuild Silicon Valley in the sky, one DAO at a time. In the end, we hope to
have a permissionless ecosystem that directs funding to entrepreneurs
regardless of their location, background, or creed.

Entrepreneurs can spend time building their product and focus on team culture,
as opposed to traveling to a few choice locations several times (SF, NY) a
year ‚Äî better using time and energy instead. Founders and companies can turn
to their community (their tribe) to spread their message and signal to the LAO
or other DAOs for funding.

As the network around The LAO grows, we intend to fight to expand access to
DAOs so that anyone can participate and join DAOs on equal footing. We believe
the future holds out a financial world supported by a constellation of loosely
connected DAOs that rely on the same common core: Ethereum, OpenLaw, and
oracle providers like ChainLink (what we‚Äôve previously described as the OLE
stack).

Eventually, the goal is to have different types of DAOs funding projects in
different ways, some for protocol development, a few that are adjacent to a
given protocol, and (hopefully) eventually the ability to create a DAO with
investors that are non-accredited, opening the world of venture financing to
everyone.

Join us in reviving DAOs. Today, at 12 PM EST, you can join as a member and
contribute to The LAO. With this, the future of decentralized finance is
taking a step forward.

# Joining The LAO

As we‚Äôve described previously, membership in The LAO will be provided on a
first-come-first-serve basis. Each member will have the opportunity to
contribute 120 ether to receive a 1% interest in the LAO, which entitles a
holder to 1% of the LAOs voting rights and profits. purchase 1% blocks of LAO
units for 120 Ether starting today. Membership is limited to 9% or for 1,080
ether.

After contributing your ether, then there is a 14 day processing period to
finish the approval of the application and fully execute the transaction. This
is due to the nature of the [Moloch v2](https://github.com/openlawteam/TheLAO)
smart contracts, which have a default seven day voting period and grace period
to allow existing members to ‚Äúrage quit‚Äù if they disagree with your
membership. Over this period, the members, coming on a first-come, first-serve
basis will be onboarded to a members-only slack and Telegram channel and there
will be calls to and call to begin organizing governance around The LAO.

If you‚Äôre interested in becoming a member of The LAO, join
[now](https://www.thelao.io/verify). Once approved, you will have an
opportunity to contribute to The LAO and become a member.

For further information, check out our [docs](https://docs.thelao.io/), which
cover questions about The LAO‚Äôs structure and operation, or hit us up via
[email](http://hello@thelao.io/) or
[telegram.](https://t.me/joinchat/FLvdBBVz3o9pfi-rfd9BqQ)

\--

\--

\--

## [More from The LAO](/@thelaoofficial?source=post_page-----
feb574f7db22--------------------------------)

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F71c8a361b148&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40thelaoofficial%2Fthe-
lao-launches-
feb574f7db22&newsletterV3=61217eadf32d&newsletterV3Id=71c8a361b148&user=The+LAO&userId=61217eadf32d&source=-----feb574f7db22
---------------------subscribe_user-----------)

A For-Profit, Limited Liability Autonomous Organization, powered by
@OpenLawOfficial.

Love podcasts or audiobooks? Learn on the go with our new app.

[Try
Knowable](https://knowable.fyi/?utm_source=medium&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=medium-
post-footer&source=post_page-----feb574f7db22--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![The
Fufu](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*9drQi4_kdyQ0H_a0I8fulg.jpeg)](/@the-
fufu?source=post_internal_links---------0----------------------------)

[The Fufu

](/@the-fufu?source=post_internal_links---------0----------------------------)

## The Fufu

](/@the-fufu/the-fufu-574ff53f32bb?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Subcritical](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*OmlnBpzBz61LLx-
Zs8Lxgg.jpeg)](/@SubcriticalTV?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[Subcritical

](/@SubcriticalTV?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Cardano RealFi Weekly Newsletter ‚Äî Issue #14

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*NNK3f59JRvB26wjuXQDbkg@2x.jpeg)](/@SubcriticalTV/cardano-
realfi-weekly-newsletter-issue-14-2f9a9d1f1d79?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[[![Febry](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*e_D1PpYPK9cTvYlZ)](/@febrijr716?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Febry

](/@febrijr716?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## KingSwap Allows Inexperienced Investors to Make High-Yield DeFi Investments
into Bitcoin and $KING‚Ä¶

](/@febrijr716/kingswap-allows-inexperienced-investors-to-make-high-yield-
defi-investments-into-bitcoin-and-king-950a24658b55?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[[![centrumcoin](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*yiAeb8Cu5Y7UL59M6sTEVg.png)](/@centrumcoin?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[centrumcoin

](/@centrumcoin?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

in

[CentrumCoin

](https://medium.com/centrumcoin?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Our Value Propostion

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*WcApmD-
Jk3rnwAtrmWRxCA.jpeg)](/centrumcoin/our-value-
propostion-8a71fe3d0174?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Based
Club](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*_RYOZj1LcBprD237MIMazg.jpeg)](/@BasedClub_co?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Based Club

](/@BasedClub_co?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Recap BasedClub with LABS

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*3byETvrZUAE24uvd9OPTlg.jpeg)](/@BasedClub_co/recap-
basedclub-with-labs-d760870aded6?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Agent
X](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*giQHZ4TDxzvQVLWtOfqrUA.png)](/@npaisa?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Agent X

](/@npaisa?source=post_internal_links---------5----------------------------)

## I don't want to be bankrupt

](/@npaisa/i-dont-want-to-be-bankrupt-ff2eb1f8b162?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[[![Bas
Wisselink](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*TMofXNpvS1KtqhnslSKjNw.png)](/@Damelon?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Bas Wisselink

](/@Damelon?source=post_internal_links---------6----------------------------)

## [:en]Forks are inherent in the system[:]

![Governance Checks and
Balances](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*FA8znqxWjsIVHJXk.png)](/@Damelon/en-
forks-are-inherent-in-the-system-d9ea5f898c07?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[[![Xumit
Capital](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*qJjE59OJRFHAb3kZfv15Vg.png)](/@xumitcapital?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Xumit Capital

](/@xumitcapital?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## CryptoTypes: Non-Fungible Tokens (XCC-NFT)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*UGjHQleC-
xwdeePC.jpg)](/coinmonks/cryptotypes-non-fungible-tokens-xcc-
nft-567816c5dbd2?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----feb574f7db22--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
feb574f7db22--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
feb574f7db22--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
feb574f7db22--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
feb574f7db22--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----feb574f7db22--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----feb574f7db22--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40thelaoofficial%2Fthe-
lao-launches-feb574f7db22&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![The
LAO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/2*X_8LYIcePYE1DMhi8vcHFw.png)](/@thelaoofficial)

[

## The LAO

](/@thelaoofficial)

608 Followers

A For-Profit, Limited Liability Autonomous Organization, powered by
@OpenLawOfficial.

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F71c8a361b148&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40thelaoofficial%2Fthe-
lao-launches-
feb574f7db22&newsletterV3=61217eadf32d&newsletterV3Id=71c8a361b148&user=The+LAO&userId=61217eadf32d&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Adara
Ventures](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Yu2vLTO_HEbIk5vbEH3IVQ.jpeg)](/@adaraventures?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------efb2485d_5af1_4400_a270_484f3a6fb5e3-------)

[Adara Ventures

](/@adaraventures?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
efb2485d_5af1_4400_a270_484f3a6fb5e3-------)

## Taking NFTs beyond collectibles: Freeverse raises 10m Series A

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*mySeQMZmANujV3jG)](/@adaraventures/taking-
nfts-beyond-collectibles-freeverse-
raises-10m-series-a-7aad072b3c25?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------efb2485d_5af1_4400_a270_484f3a6fb5e3-------)

[[![Starseed
DAO](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*u6HrLuAYLVPRnYJorPytDA.jpeg)](/@StarseedDAO?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------efb2485d_5af1_4400_a270_484f3a6fb5e3-------)

[Starseed DAO

](/@StarseedDAO?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
efb2485d_5af1_4400_a270_484f3a6fb5e3-------)

## What will NFTs and DeFi solve?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*FAzycU3rbNxEz73D1epCAA.jpeg)](/@StarseedDAO/what-
will-nfts-and-defi-solve-c41aca7081fa?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------efb2485d_5af1_4400_a270_484f3a6fb5e3-------)

[[![CYBAVO
Inc.](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*QIy-I3YFsvXqvDi66KjSVw.png)](/@cybavo?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------efb2485d_5af1_4400_a270_484f3a6fb5e3-------)

[CYBAVO Inc.

](/@cybavo?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
efb2485d_5af1_4400_a270_484f3a6fb5e3-------)

## The Rise of DAOs: How They Can Transform Institutional Decision-making

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*YFKiG_pNX_uTB-
Tt.png)](/@cybavo/the-rise-of-daos-how-they-can-transform-institutional-
decision-making-fbcfba67e8ba?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------efb2485d_5af1_4400_a270_484f3a6fb5e3-------)

[[![Ikaris](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*uRzelVIS0Ujy2gAYtt1F_g.png)](/@ikarisx?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------efb2485d_5af1_4400_a270_484f3a6fb5e3-------)

[Ikaris

](/@ikarisx?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
efb2485d_5af1_4400_a270_484f3a6fb5e3-------)

## Technical Foundations | a16z NFT Canon Notes

](/@ikarisx/technical-foundations-a16z-nft-canon-
notes-a70ed6df8581?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
efb2485d_5af1_4400_a270_484f3a6fb5e3-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

