[](https://medium.com/)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/4bd7d75e62fc&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](https://medium.com/)

[Home](https://medium.com/)

[Notifications](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Enigma](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*aIQTqQDM97_LBgHTkHGqcA.png)](https://blog.enigma.co/?source=post_page
-----4bd7d75e62fc--------------------------------)

Published in

[Enigma

](https://blog.enigma.co/?source=post_page-----
4bd7d75e62fc--------------------------------)

[![Guy
Zyskind](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/0*ZpHXQNqEJWmyw2ZF.jpg)](https://medium.com/@GuyZ?source=post_page
-----4bd7d75e62fc--------------------------------)

[Guy Zyskind](https://medium.com/@GuyZ?source=post_page-----
4bd7d75e62fc--------------------------------)

[Follow](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fsubscribe%2Fuser%2Faa3e19d25a6f&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fthe-
secret-is-out-announcing-the-secret-contracts-
mainnet-4bd7d75e62fc&user=Guy+Zyskind&userId=aa3e19d25a6f&source=post_page-
aa3e19d25a6f----4bd7d75e62fc---------------------follow_byline-----------)

Aug 31, 2020

·

8 min read

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fbookmark%2Fp%2F4bd7d75e62fc&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fthe-
secret-is-out-announcing-the-secret-contracts-
mainnet-4bd7d75e62fc&source=--------------------------bookmark_header-----------)

[

Save

](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fbookmark%2Fp%2F4bd7d75e62fc&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fthe-
secret-is-out-announcing-the-secret-contracts-
mainnet-4bd7d75e62fc&source=--------------------------bookmark_header-----------)

# The Secret is Out: Announcing the Secret Contracts Mainnet!

## After years of development and two successful public testnets, we’re ready
to bring secret contracts to life, making Secret Network the first privacy-
preserving blockchain of its kind.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*oUCgA1w5Zzr149xH.png)

 _Originally published on the_[ _Secret Network
blog_](https://blog.scrt.network/secret-contracts-mainnet/) _._

Hello to the community!

Today we are extremely excited to announce our most exciting milestone to
date: the introduction of privacy-preserving secret contracts to the Secret
Network mainnet. The proposal to introduce secret contracts to mainnet will be
made on **September 8th, 2020.** If passed by the community, the secret
contracts network upgrade would take place on **September 15th, 2020.**

This proposed upgrade would make Secret Network **the first layer-one
blockchain to enable general purpose private computation across a distributed
system of nodes equipped with secure enclaves.** For the first time,
developers will be able to build and deploy “secret” smart contracts that can
utilize encrypted inputs, outputs, and state. At the same time, we’re building
connections to Ethereum, Cosmos Hub, and other networks, intending to bring
our capacity for “programmable privacy” to the entire blockchain universe.

>  _Simply put:_ ** _Secret Network brings privacy to public blockchains._**

Essentially, Secret Contracts enable anyone to use their private data in
decentralized applications without revealing the raw data. **Data being used
in computations throughout Secret Network simply can’t be public.**

This event is the culmination of years of research and development work. The
Enigma development team has worked tirelessly to bring this functionality to
the Secret Network blockchain, and after a series of successful testnets, it
is time to bring secret contracts fully into the world.

Read on to learn more about secret contracts, a brief history of recent
progress in our community, what’s launching now (secret tokens!) and what
happens next.

# What are secret contracts?

The vision of the decentralized web is to create a more user-centric and
sustainable internet of value. Applications built on distributed networks
enjoy the benefit of being robust, unstoppable, censorship-resistant, and
transparent. For this reason, blockchains have been a key piece of the
decentralized web vision.

But all blockchains, and by extension smart contracts deployed on them, have
one glaring and near-fatal problem — _all data stored on them is public._ **In
that sense, traditional blockchains are worse than anything that came before
them.** Instead of trusting a single organization (e.g., Facebook, Google,
your bank, etc.) with your data, now you have to trust everyone. For all
intents and purposes, data on the blockchain becomes public domain.

But what if you could program smart contracts that not only solved for
correctness, but also for privacy? What if you could have encrypted inputs and
outputs as well as network state, keeping it hidden from all parties,
including the nodes executing the smart contract? With these new types of
contracts, users and applications can operate in an environment where it’s
safe to include sensitive data, which most real-world use cases require. This
is the concept of “secret” smart contracts that Secret Network introduces.

[Secret contracts allow for programmable
privacy,](https://blog.scrt.network/programmable-privacy/) allowing for
arbitrarily complex data privacy controls to be implemented inside
applications. The flexible encryption capabilities and controls offered by
programmable privacy unlock the potential value of the decentralized web. **It
allows for privacy how you want, for anything you want, when you want it, and
from whom you want it.**

 **Learn more in this**[ **blog
post**](https://blog.scrt.network/programmable-privacy) **:**

[

## Programmable Privacy

### Last decade, after the successful application of Bitcoin in creating a
formidable, decentralized digital currency, an…

blog.scrt.network

](https://blog.scrt.network/programmable-privacy/)

# A Brief History of Secret Network

The Secret Network was launched in February 2020 by over twenty independent
validators from the existing community of Enigma. At the time, the network was
known as the _Enigma Blockchain._ The network is based on Tendermint / Cosmos
SDK and features a native coin — Secret (SCRT) — used for staking, governance,
and network fees. Today, Secret Network has over forty active mainnet
validators!

In May, a proposal was made to [rebrand the network as “Secret
Network.”](https://blog.scrt.network/introducing-secret-network/) This
proposal passed with unanimous approval on May 17th, 2020. The logic behind
this naming was simple: with concepts like secret nodes and secret contracts
well established in the ecosystem, and with a native coin known as SCRT, it
was only natural to align the network’s branding entirely around “Secret.”
Plus, since the project was now being supported by many independent entities
and not a single development company, the community felt the network’s naming
should reflect this fact.

[But as we explained in a recent video](https://youtu.be/Jk7kV1ph-FQ), there’s
a deeper meaning behind the word “secret” — one that is very resonant for our
community.

>  _A secret is something that you don’t want to share with everyone, but
> still want to share with people you choose to trust. A secret is something
> that you want to keep protected — not because it’s something bad, but
> because it’s something valuable. We call this network “Secret” because it
> allows developers and users to protect valuable data while still enabling
> them to share and compute it when, how, and with whomever they choose._
> Secret Network is where these important concepts of privacy, freedom, and
> consent coincide.

In June, we reached another exciting milestone: [the completion of code for
secret contracts!](https://blog.scrt.network/secret-contracts-update-
milestone-3-of-3-is-complete/) This allows CosmWasm smart contracts to run
with encryption inside secure enclaves, making the magic of secret contracts
possible.

With the completion of this code, we launched the [Secret
Games](https://blog.scrt.network/announcing-the-secret-games/) in July — a
series of incentivized testnets designed to test secret contracts in the wild!
We split this into two phases: [Phase 1,](https://blog.scrt.network/secret-
games-update-testnet-phase-1/) an invitation-only testnet capped at fifteen
participants, and [Phase 2,](https://blog.scrt.network/secret-games-update-
incentivized-testnet-phase-2/) open to all participants! Phase 1 brought
incredible participation and feedback from many experienced and talented
validators, including Staked, Figment, Chorus One, Dokia Capital, Iqlusion,
Outlier Ventures, Chainflow, Hashquark, B-Harvest, Mitera BV, and more. Phase
2 has been a huge success, with [over 80 validators connecting to the
testnet](https://explorer.pub.testnet.enigma.co/).

These testnets allowed validators not only to get valuable experience
supporting Secret Network, but also with deploying and utilizing secret
contracts. Participants played “Secret Hold’em,” entered a “Secret Raffle,”
and tested out “Secret Tokens” (more on this below).

We’re excited to say that these testnets have not uncovered any critical
unaddressed issues, which means we are ready to move to our most critical
milestone for secret contracts: **integration with the Secret Network
mainnet.**

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*akaE4wZen11cC1C4.png)

# What happens right now?

The Enigma development team plans to make an [on-chain
proposal](https://blog.scrt.network/secret-network-governance/) on September
8th, 2020 to upgrade the network to include secret contracts. If this proposal
has reached approval after the usual seven day voting period has expired,
**secret contracts will be LIVE on Secret Network on September 15th, 2020!**

With this launch our attention will turn to mass adoption: onboarding new
secret contract developers, secret node operators, and community members who
are passionate about securing and scaling the nascent decentralized web. With
the support of the Secret Foundation and community committees, we will be
working to produce more educational materials and documentation that help
expand our ecosystem and build more bridges to the rest of the blockchain
universe!

Excitingly, we will be launching some of the first secret contracts alongside
this mainnet upgrade, including “[secret
tokens.](https://blog.scrt.network/secret-tokens-programmable-privacy-for-
defi/)” This is a powerful idea that applies our network’s capability for
“[programmable privacy](https://blog.scrt.network/programmable-privacy/)” to
the world of decentralized finance. **Secret tokens are programmable, privacy-
preserving tokens — programmable like ERC20s, but private like zCash. Most
importantly,** **secret tokens create network effects for privacy, providing
the missing piece for DeFi mass adoption**.

With secret tokens, each DeFi user actually gains more privacy with each
additional DeFi service and every dollar worth of additional value locked in
the ecosystem, leading to privacy network effects. The reason for this is that
the aggregate liquidity across all DeFi applications directly quantifies the
level of privacy you obtain (this is also known as the anonymity set). Think
about these privacy gains like vaccination: the more people who inoculate
themselves by using Secret Network to protect their privacy, the more benefits
everyone else in the Secret DeFi ecosystem can gain.

Our first implementation of secret tokens allows you to deposit X amount of
SCRT (which is not private by itself) and instead obtain X amount of
“secretSCRT” — the privacy-preserving Secret Token version of SCRT. The same
could be done for any asset in the Cosmos ecosystem utilizing IBC, and in the
future could support assets from Ethereum and other ecosystems.

Learn more [here](https://blog.scrt.network/secret-tokens-programmable-
privacy-for-defi/):

[

## Secret Tokens: Programmable Privacy for DeFi

### Part of the "Secret Solutions" series, this post explores how solving for
privacy with Secret Network helps with…

blog.scrt.network

](https://blog.scrt.network/secret-tokens-programmable-privacy-for-defi/)

# What’s next on the roadmap?

After the mainnet upgrade, the Enigma development team and the Secret Network
ecosystem will be focusing on adding products and functionality that
strengthen the position of the Secret Network in supporting the decentralized
web. We’ve been actively exploring some key products related to our expansion
of the Secret DeFi ecosystem, and there’s already working code on internal
testnets. You can expect these to be announced and explored on the Secret Blog
in the near future!

You may be wondering whether we expect an explosion of native assets on the
Secret Network. While that’s a long-term goal for us, in the short-run, we are
focused on building bridges to Ethereum, Cosmos Hub, and other blockchain
ecosystems. **One of Secret Network’s primary advantages is its
interoperability.** These bridges will allow assets in other ecosystems to be
turned into privacy tokens based on the SecretToken standard, allowing us to
bring programmable privacy to Ethereum and Cosmos ecosystems. This will enable
privacy preserving synthetic assets on Secret Network, such as secretETH,
secretDAI and secretATOM to be used in DeFi products and utilized with full
privacy.

We now must give a huge thank you to every community member who has been a
part of this long and challenging journey to the present moment. The strength
of any project lies in its community — and Secret Network is no exception.
Thank you in particular to our
[committees](https://learn.scrt.network/committees.html), led by members of
the community and Secret Foundation:

  * The Infrastructure committee for testing and identifying mainnet compliant hardware
  * The Governance committee for solidifying Secret Network governance
  * The Dev committee for improving documentation and helping onboard developers
  * The Education committee for producing critical educational materials
  * The Awareness committee for spreading the word about programmable privacy!

Thank you as well to the many mainnet and testnet validators who help secure
our network by running computational secret nodes. Your ongoing support is
critical to the success and stability of Secret Network!

The introduction of secret contracts to mainnet brings many new opportunities
for growth and engagement. If you’re passionate about bringing privacy to the
decentralized web and you’d like to join our community and participate in our
committees, please join the following channels:

Official Secret Chat: [https://chat.scrt.network](https://chat.scrt.network/)

Official Secret Forum:
[https://forum.scrt.network](https://forum.scrt.network/)

Community Discord: <https://discord.com/invite/SJK32GY>

Community Telegram: <https://t.me/scrtcommunity>

Secret Twitter: <https://twitter.com/secretnetwork>

# To infinities and beyond!

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fvote%2Fenigmampc%2F4bd7d75e62fc&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fthe-
secret-is-out-announcing-the-secret-contracts-
mainnet-4bd7d75e62fc&user=Guy+Zyskind&userId=aa3e19d25a6f&source=-----4bd7d75e62fc
---------------------clap_footer-----------)

\--

1

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fvote%2Fenigmampc%2F4bd7d75e62fc&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fthe-
secret-is-out-announcing-the-secret-contracts-
mainnet-4bd7d75e62fc&user=Guy+Zyskind&userId=aa3e19d25a6f&source=-----4bd7d75e62fc
---------------------clap_footer-----------)

\--

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fvote%2Fenigmampc%2F4bd7d75e62fc&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fthe-
secret-is-out-announcing-the-secret-contracts-
mainnet-4bd7d75e62fc&user=Guy+Zyskind&userId=aa3e19d25a6f&source=-----4bd7d75e62fc
---------------------clap_footer-----------)

\--

1

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fbookmark%2Fp%2F4bd7d75e62fc&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fthe-
secret-is-out-announcing-the-secret-contracts-
mainnet-4bd7d75e62fc&source=--------------------------bookmark_footer-----------)

## [More from Enigma](https://blog.enigma.co/?source=post_page-----
4bd7d75e62fc--------------------------------)

[Follow](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fsubscribe%2Fcollection%2Fenigmampc%2F4bd7d75e62fc&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fthe-
secret-is-out-announcing-the-secret-contracts-
mainnet-4bd7d75e62fc&collection=Enigma&collectionId=6cb5d792f282&source=post_page
-----4bd7d75e62fc---------------------follow_footer-----------)

Official Blog of Enigma - Securing the Decentralized Web.

[Read more from Enigma](https://blog.enigma.co/?source=post_page-----
4bd7d75e62fc--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Hans
Moog](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*WD5a6I6kiu_heuGiETKxXA.jpeg)](https://husqy.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Hans Moog

](https://husqy.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

in

[IOTA

](https://medium.com/iotatangle?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## A Proposal for Reusable Addresses [Part 3]

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*wi2hm-P9tBApHPlCJKn8Zw.png)](https://medium.com/iotatangle/a-proposal-
for-reusable-addresses-part-3-9ec6fa1929d7?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Internet of Energy
Network](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*EBGq745RdjGcRg7m0otc_w.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@IOEN?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Internet of Energy Network

](https://medium.com/@IOEN?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

in

[Internet of Energy Network

](https://medium.com/internet-of-energy-network?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

## IOEN Roadmap — Phase 2: Bootstrapping the Network

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*0vC-U2QjmDBRNVnb)](https://medium.com/internet-
of-energy-network/ioen-roadmap-phase-2-bootstrapping-the-
network-e6b021270748?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![cucukakek](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*AUt9aoJM4el9Fz20)](https://cucukakek.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[cucukakek

](https://cucukakek.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Elysian Finance & The Future Of Decentralized Finance

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*9tVdu9JGg7bJrpqtHddV8A.png)](https://cucukakek.medium.com/elysian-
finance-the-future-of-decentralized-finance-
cce74b9864d0?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

[[![Generasi 90](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*M8NMLnXfA6Xp4URXh-S-
Fw.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@Generasi90?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[Generasi 90

](https://medium.com/@Generasi90?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Values DAO are organizations to realize and implement very significant
changes in the application…

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*5xnF_381OGtujaZCzo0cOA.png)](https://medium.com/@Generasi90/values-
dao-are-organizations-to-realize-and-implement-very-significant-changes-in-
the-application-c49798cc9803?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Paul
Mak](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*EBZKgRxekgRSnFpoZNx7eg@2x.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@paulymakk?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Paul Mak

](https://medium.com/@paulymakk?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Why decentralisation matters

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*OYj2ODe84MSKAc4tUF6lbg.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@paulymakk/why-
decentralisation-matters-4147ca7c1c98?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Antier
Solutions](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*_RMcbAM9HLL9cfHVC_cdfA.jpeg)](https://antiersolutions.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Antier Solutions

](https://antiersolutions.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## In 2016 when Kayla Imhoff was in a desperate mental state after getting
laid off from her retail…

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*LZZDn6LAAs_1ZX5a.png)](https://antiersolutions.medium.com/in-2016-when-
kayla-imhoff-was-in-a-desperate-mental-state-after-getting-laid-off-from-her-
retail-bffe6dca26aa?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Upbit
Official](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*b7E3KUdA2dY2TP2P9Q8O-Q.png)](https://upbit.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Upbit Official

](https://upbit.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## [Announcement] Information on digital assets held by Dunamu & Partners
(August 2021)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*3dgtwltnxuUumBa0TAVbvg.jpeg)](https://upbit.medium.com/announcement-
information-on-digital-assets-held-by-dunamu-partners-
august-2021-c7a69fb1e534?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![NFTease](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*iz3qOSrgg-
gdqFdXJ02rcw.png)](https://nfteaseapp.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[NFTease

](https://nfteaseapp.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## NFTease v2 Just Released!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*5HHtwXg4Ufu7nElqQRY3Fw.png)](https://nfteaseapp.medium.com/nftease-v2-just-
released-3d07d4af9d5?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](https://medium.com/?source=post_page-----
4bd7d75e62fc--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
4bd7d75e62fc--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
4bd7d75e62fc--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
4bd7d75e62fc--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
4bd7d75e62fc--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----4bd7d75e62fc--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----4bd7d75e62fc--------------------------------)

[Get
started](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fthe-
secret-is-out-announcing-the-secret-contracts-
mainnet-4bd7d75e62fc&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Guy
Zyskind](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/0*ZpHXQNqEJWmyw2ZF.jpg)](https://medium.com/@GuyZ)

[

## Guy Zyskind

](https://medium.com/@GuyZ)

770 Followers

Founder & CEO at @EnigmaMPC — building a new decentralized ecosystem.
Previously @MIT @medialab

[Follow](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fsubscribe%2Fuser%2Faa3e19d25a6f&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fthe-
secret-is-out-announcing-the-secret-contracts-
mainnet-4bd7d75e62fc&user=Guy+Zyskind&userId=aa3e19d25a6f&source=post_page-
aa3e19d25a6f-------------------------follow_profile-----------)

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2Fb5e8570f77d0&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.enigma.co%2Fthe-
secret-is-out-announcing-the-secret-contracts-
mainnet-4bd7d75e62fc&newsletterV3=aa3e19d25a6f&newsletterV3Id=b5e8570f77d0&user=Guy+Zyskind&userId=aa3e19d25a6f&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Zachary
Goldstein](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*ulnKkSqpSeCVfN6jVIacQg.jpeg)](https://zacharygoldstein00.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------48a6beb0_12cb_4466_bd93_48de43b4cd6b-------)

[Zachary Goldstein

](https://zacharygoldstein00.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------48a6beb0_12cb_4466_bd93_48de43b4cd6b-------)

## What is Istanbul Byzantine Fault Tolerant (IBFT)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*GFSfimG0rE4dvWx3KAJMBg.png)](https://zacharygoldstein00.medium.com/what-
is-istanbul-byzantine-fault-tolerant-ibft-5ee006acbf8a?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------48a6beb0_12cb_4466_bd93_48de43b4cd6b-------)

[[![John Meurer
Jr.](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*UXZQ0V8Z4IrZmyxCqLJTTA.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@therealjmj?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------48a6beb0_12cb_4466_bd93_48de43b4cd6b-------)

[John Meurer Jr.

](https://medium.com/@therealjmj?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------48a6beb0_12cb_4466_bd93_48de43b4cd6b-------)

in

[RAILGUN Project Development

](https://medium.com/railgun-project-it-development?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------48a6beb0_12cb_4466_bd93_48de43b4cd6b-------)

## Privacy tech for DeFi — Part I

![Data flow for Layer-1 RAILGUN Relayer
Network](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*qZP-
TuRdR6lg0Uv8ZZpRZA.png)](https://medium.com/railgun-project-it-
development/privacy-tech-for-defi-part-i-c4af63214ec7?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------48a6beb0_12cb_4466_bd93_48de43b4cd6b-------)

[[![JaviWalk](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*GeLKsWfO-8i5B6T8ngYgnw.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@JaviWalk?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------48a6beb0_12cb_4466_bd93_48de43b4cd6b-------)

[JaviWalk

](https://medium.com/@JaviWalk?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------48a6beb0_12cb_4466_bd93_48de43b4cd6b-------)

## So… What are ‘cryptocurrencies’ anyway?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*O1v6nISWvkZLKuiQ3UMxjQ.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@JaviWalk/so-
what-are-cryptocurrencies-anyway-f373e68e48e2?source=read_next_recirc---------
2---------------------48a6beb0_12cb_4466_bd93_48de43b4cd6b-------)

[[![Rusty
Stanberry](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*fVTiKqeHHgyPw9fSVOVWAg.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@rstanberry?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------48a6beb0_12cb_4466_bd93_48de43b4cd6b-------)

[Rusty Stanberry

](https://medium.com/@rstanberry?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------48a6beb0_12cb_4466_bd93_48de43b4cd6b-------)

## Why you shouldn’t use the Polygon Bridge.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*Tl_gLe6FDLZkq-6X)](https://medium.com/@rstanberry/why-
you-shouldnt-use-the-polygon-bridge-a3dc5245e6bc?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------48a6beb0_12cb_4466_bd93_48de43b4cd6b-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](https://medium.com/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

