[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# The Role of DAOs in Web3

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

The Role of DAOs in Web3

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

March 2020

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

It is hard to think about anything but Covid-19 at the moment. The scale of
the devastation is only just becoming clear to millions of people around the
World. I have nothing valuable to add to the conversation and in fact, any
contribution would almost certainly be ill-informed and wrong.

However, with millions of people WFH looking for distractions, maybe 850 words
on the role of DAOs in Web3? Well then, here you are.

The key theme of [Web3 is peer-to-peer
trust](https://outlierventures.io/research/technology-as-a-political-act-aka-
web3/). Web3 offers the building blocks for trusted peer-to-peer interactions.
So the obvious next question is under which organisation form these peer-to-
peer interactions will take place?

**In the past, it was like this**

The limited liability company is a legal form that has come to dominate global
business since the 1850s. This legal invention is a product of its time.
Specifically, in 1811, to incentivise the production of local textiles and
useful goods in New York because of the trade war with the U.K. and France.
The New York Legislature needed to scale up domestic production as quickly as
possible and made it easier to form and fund a business by limiting the
liability of investors. Investors weren't on the hook for when the company
bankruptcy. It worked. Just seven years later, in 1818, one hundred and
twenty-nine manufacturing firms had incorporated in New York. General limited
liability took off after the Limited Liability Act of 1855 by in the U.K; the
goal was the same: encourage investors to finance new companies. This drive to
promote private financing led to further laws like the unrestricted transfer
of shares, primary and secondary share markets, as well as tax breaks. The
tension for the Government is how to ensure responsible company financing in
the face of limited liability.

**Then something happened**

_" One of the big questions for the next decade is: how should we govern the
large new digital communities that the Internet has enabled? Platforms like
Facebook have to make tradeoffs on social values we all hold dear -- like
between free expression and safety, or between privacy and law enforcement, or
between creating open systems and locking down data and access. It's rare that
there's ever a clear "right" answer, and in many cases, it's as important that
the decisions are made in a way that feels legitimate to the community. From
this perspective, I don't think private companies should be making so many
important decisions that touch on fundamental democratic values." _**Mark
Zuckerberg**

Mark Zuckerberg is suggesting that private companies have got too big and
infringing on the role of The State. Is the limited-liability joint-stock
company the right corporate structure for digital platforms used by billions
of people? Digital services, especially social media and Internet search, are
now public services run by private companies with very little regulation. As
more of our lives move online to be supercharged by AR and VR, how can we
ensure corporate structures have legitimacy and strike a balance between
universal access and profit maximisation?

**So the future might be like this**

We now have a new invention, the decentralised autonomous organisation. I'm
not convinced that a collection of smart contracts running on a blockchain-
based network will replace the limited liability company in its entirety. But
at the core of the DAO model are two things:

  1. Anyone can contribute and be rewarded based on resource contribution (money, time, expertise, etc.) (regulation notwithstanding)
  2. Anyone can vote and influence the resource allocation process

Just like the invention of limited liability, the DAO could encourage company
formation and financing by making it easier and cheaper to start a company and
get funding. The DAO solves for the flaw in the joint-stock limited liability
company whereby only a few people can buy shares and get rewarded in the form
of dividends, but more importantly, take decisions that impact billions of
users. Users of the network contribute all of the value but get no reward. Nor
do they have a say in how the network is run.

DAOs are the antithesis of Big Tech today, in which founders have full
control, arguably with some accountability from activist investors and board
members. But this is a small group of people who collectively decide what we
read, watch, listen to and therefore over time, believe. The DAO is
transparent and open; users decide on the allocation of resources. There is a
lot of work to be done on exactly how to organise DAOs to achieve optimal
outcomes. Still, experiments abound with Aragon, Colony, DAOStack, MakerDAO,
and MolochDAO amongst others. DAOs are bringing together engineers,
economists, lawyers and governance experts to rethink the fundamentals of what
organisation can be in a 2020 context.

I think DAOs will have the most significant impact in the short term as they
become formalised as new productivity software. An Asana Board DAO where each
completed task executes a smart contract to draw down a bounty, for example.
As Web3 emerges, DAOs will become the de facto organisational structure;
digital and global with broad-based governance. An organisational structure
fit to support trusted peer-to-peer interactions.

â€”

Note - our accelerator program is accepting applications for our third cohort
in Berlin. [Apply here.](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)

Thanks to [Jack Laing of Pokt.Network](https://www.pokt.network/team/jack-
laing/) for a recent discussion that helped inform this conversation. He
curates a [newsletter](https://orgtech.substack.com/) on all things
governance-related. You should subscribe.

Posted by Lawrence Lundy - March 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

March 2020

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

