[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# The Convergence Alliance Launch: Realising Web3.0

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

The Convergence Alliance Launch

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_catherine-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Catherine Thomas

Business Development Manager

Her core responsibilities are managing investor and partner relations,
supporting our portfolio companies and building the Outlier Ventures
community....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1224)

# The launch of The Convergence Alliance brought together the leaders building
the next phase of the Web from open-source protocols, enterprise, start-ups,
government bodies, and academia.

##

Posted by Catherine Thomas - June 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_catherine-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Catherine Thomas

Business Development Manager

Her core responsibilities are managing investor and partner relations,
supporting our portfolio companies and building the Outlier Ventures
community....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1224)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

## Outlier Ventures invited partners to join the Alliance, which has as its
core mission to accelerate and diffuse a more equitable, scalable and usable
Web3.0, centered around a new data economy. Driving innovation by defining,
building, and integrating The Convergence Stack, actioned through working
groups, research, hackathons, and an annual dev con.

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV220519100-e1561561921146-1100x575.jpg)

Introduction to Outlier Ventures and The Convergence Stack and Convergence
Alliance: CEO Jamie Burke, Partner and Head of Research Lawrence Lundy, and
Business Development Manager Catherine Thomas, Outlier Ventures

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV22051916-e1561561363524-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV22051926-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV22051929-1100x575.jpg)

If you were not able to attend, here is a summary of The Convergence Stack,
The Convergence Alliance and the panels of those leading Web3.0.

  * What is The Convergence Alliance and how can you be a part of it?

  * Introduction to The Convergence Alliance launch in May 2019:

### Building Web 3.0

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV22051939-1100x575.jpg)

Building Web 3.0 Panel: Marta Piekarska, Hyperledger- The Linux Foundation,
Toby Simpson, Fetch.AI, Rhian Lewis, London Women in Bitcoin, Ben Livshits,
Brave Software, Phil Windley, Sovrin Foundation, Aron van Ammers, Outlier
Ventures

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV22051938-e1561562275910-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV22051942-1100x575.jpg)

Building Web 3.0 Panel: Marta Piekarska, Hyperledger- The Linux Foundation,
Toby Simpson, Fetch.AI, Rhian Lewis, London Women in Bitcoin, Ben Livshits,
Brave Software, Phil Windley, Sovrin Foundation, Aron van Ammers, Outlier
Ventures

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV22051940-e1561562322326-1100x575.jpg)

Building Web 3.0 Panel: Marta Piekarska, Hyperledger- The Linux Foundation,
Toby Simpson, Fetch.AI, Rhian Lewis, London Women in Bitcoin, Ben Livshits,
Brave Software, Phil Windley, Sovrin Foundation, Aron van Ammers, Outlier
Ventures

The first panel included a range of partners from The Convergence Stack such
as Fetch.AI, Hyperledger - The Linux Foundation, Brave, Sovrin and the
developer community London Bitcoin Women. Marta Piekarska, the Director of
Ecosystem at Hyperledger Linux Foundation, opened the debate of _‘What is
Web3.0?’,_ with Aron van Ammers, the Outlier Ventures CTO, affirming that at
OV we are constantly refining our investment thesis and roadmap around the
evolving definition of Web3.0. Toby Simpson, CTO of Fetch.AI, defined Web3.0
as the Web of autonomy and complexity management. Ben Livshits, Chief
Scientist at Brave Software, defined it as Web of value and value capture.

Watch the full Building Web3.0 panel here:

### Enterprise Driving Innovation

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV22051954-1100x575.jpg)

Enterprise Driving Innovation Panel: Matt Law, Outlier Ventures, Robert
Learney, Digital Catapult, Dr. Alexandra Mikityuk, Deutsche Telekom, Haischel
Dabian, Kryha Blockchain Solutions, Eddy Louchart, Samsung SDS

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV22051952-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV22051961-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV22051955-e1561562716425-1100x575.jpg)

Enterprise Driving Innovation Panel: Matt Law, Outlier Ventures, Robert
Learney, Digital Catapult, Dr. Alexandra Mikityuk, Deutsche Telekom, Haischel
Dabian, Kryha Blockchain Solutions, Eddy Louchart, Samsung SDS

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV22051953-e1561562696214-1100x575.jpg)

To realise Web3.0 overall, and within The Convergence Alliance specifically,
enterprise partners will play a central role, driving the diffusion of
innovation through adopting decentralised technology and developing proof of
concepts into live use cases. Deutsche Telekom Innovation Laboratories T-Labs,
Samsung SDS, Digital Catapult and Kryha Blockchain Solutions spoke of
challenges to overcome such as gaining support from C-Suite and communicating
the value of these technologies, the average time for enterprise to adopt a
new software of seven years, as well as understanding the costs and savings of
emerging tech. The panel delved into the debate of enterprise chains and
public chains, looking at hybrid models to meet enterprise needs. Overall our
panelists saw the most relevant use cases around registration of assets,
market places to monetise data and open data platforms.

Watch the full Enterprise Driving Innovation panel here:

### The 4th Industrial Revolution in Smart Cities

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV22051970-1100x575.jpg)

The 4th Industrial Revolution in Smart Cities Fireside Chat: Vangelis
Andrikopoulos, Outlier Ventures, Andrew Tobin, Evernym, Julie Alexander,
Places for People.

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV22051977-e1561562880654-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV22051978-e1561562904403-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV22051983-1100x575.jpg)

The 4th Industrial Revolution in Smart Cities Fireside Chat: Vangelis
Andrikopoulos, Outlier Ventures, Andrew Tobin, Evernym, Julie Alexander,
Places for People.

The Smart Cities fireside chat assessed what are the most pressing needs for
citizens related to Environment, Transport, Healthcare, Housing, and Equality.
Looking at how decentralised technology can help solve these challenges,
Andrew Tobin from Evernym, spoke on self-sovereign identity. According to the
World Bank, over 1 billion people don’t have any form of identity, locking
them out of services such as healthcare, education, and banking. Evernym works
toward solving this by building identity solutions on Sovrin, a decentralised,
global public utility protocol for self-sovereign identity. Julie Alexander,
Director of Technology and Innovation at Places for People, one of the largest
property management, development and regeneration companies in the UK, spoke
on the challenge of access and ownership of data. In order to provide high
living standards for residents and plan for future building, Places for People
requires access to data on buildings as well as across the construction supply
chain. However, the industry is still slow to digitise, adding further
complexity to the housing crisis. DLT in convergence with IoT, could provide
transparency and security to access this data.

Watch the full The 4th Industrial Revolution in Smart Cities panel here

### Crossing the Chasm: The Diffusion of Tokenised Networks

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV22051993-e1561563075102-1100x575.jpg)

Crossing the Chasm: The Diffusion of Tokenised Networks Panel: Ioana
Surpateanu, Citi, Toby Simpson, Fetch.AI, Richard Burton, Balanced Software,
Prof. Dr. Philipp Sandner, Frankfurt School Blockchain Center, Jamie Burke,
Outlier Ventures

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV22051915-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV22051998-e1561563098340-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![The Convergence Alliance Launch Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/OV22051988-e1561563126321-1100x575.jpg)

Crossing the Chasm: The Diffusion of Tokenised Networks Panel: Ioana
Surpateanu, Citi, Toby Simpson, Fetch.AI, Richard Burton, Balanced Software,
Prof. Dr. Philipp Sandner, Frankfurt School Blockchain Center, Jamie Burke,
Outlier Ventures

Why are tokenised networks relevant? Building Web3.0, the role of tokens is
highly debated, as stablecoins, securities, access to networks, incentives,
collaboration and consensus mechanisms, new business models, a way to transfer
and store value, and as fund-raising tools. At Outlier Ventures, our Crypto
Economics team designs these economies of the future, Toby Simpson spoke of
Fetch.AI as an example where the token acts as an incentive mechanism designed
for collaboration and encouraging decentralisation.

The panel got into a heated debate with Richard Burton speaking on ‘working
for the protocol’ and token incentives with over 100,000 people working for
Bitcoin. Dr. Philipp Sandner of the Frankfurt School Blockchain Center covered
the role of enterprise for a path to mass adoption and stablecoins, Jamie
Burke CEO of Outlier spoke on the very important topic of what is the role of
the state and regulation as a barrier or catalyst of token adoption. Ioana
Surpateanu from Citi spoke on tokens as the segway of financial institutions
coming into the market. This is a highly recommended panel to watch that
presents perspectives from all sides of the blockchain community.

Watch the full Crossing the Chasm panel here:

### How to join The Alliance

At Outlier Ventures we want to partner with, support and invest in projects
working to realise The Convergence Stack whether early-stage startups, later
stage projects, corporates, governments, and academia. Being part of the
Alliance allows parties to develop a commercial advantage in partnership with
the next Internet. With benefits such as knowledge, access, influence, and
presence.

Please contact partnership@outlierventures.io to join the Alliance.

For more information on the Convergence Alliance and how to join, please watch
here:

_This article is for information purposes only and does not constitute
investment advice. This article does not amount to an invitation or inducement
to buy or sell an investment nor does it solicit any such offer or invitation
in any jurisdiction._

_In all cases, readers should conduct their own investigation and analysis of
the data in the article. All statements of opinion and/or belief contained in
this article and all views expressed and all projections, forecasts or
statements relating to expectations regarding future events represent Outlier
Ventures Operation Limited own assessment and interpretation of information
available as at the date of this article._

___No responsibility or liability is accepted by Outlier Ventures Operations
Limited or Sapia Partners LLP for reliance on the contents of this article._

_Outlier Ventures is an Appointed Representative of Sapia Partners LLP, a firm
authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)._

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

