[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

The SEC's reminder: the wheels of justice grind slow, but exceedingly fine

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

[mc4wp_form id='4618']

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/05/ov_jocelyn-150x150.jpg)

November 2018

Posted by

Jocelyn Roberts

Principal, Head of Legal

She was previously an associate at Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton, where she
focused on cross-border corporate and financial transactions. Jocelyn
completed her legal training with Hogan Lovells, qualifying as a solicitor of
the Senior Courts of England and Wales....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1285)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/blog-
post-9.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/) [Lawrence Lundy
Joins Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/)

April 2016  

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/blog-
post-7.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-vc-to-
hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/) [Outlier
Ventures Becomes First VC To Hire ‘Head of Crypto-Economics’ With Appointment
of Eden Dhaliwal](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-
vc-to-hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/)

August 2017  

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# The SEC's reminder: the wheels of justice grind slow, but exceedingly fine

Posted by Jocelyn Roberts - November 2018

[ __](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://outlierventures.io/the-
secs-reminder-the-wheels-of-justice-grind-slow-but-exceedingly-fine) [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://outlierventures.io/the-
secs-reminder-the-wheels-of-justice-grind-slow-but-exceedingly-fine&title=The
SEC’s reminder: the wheels of justice grind slow, but exceedingly fine) [
__](https://twitter.com/share?url=https://outlierventures.io/the-secs-
reminder-the-wheels-of-justice-grind-slow-but-exceedingly-fine&text=The SEC’s
reminder: the wheels of justice grind slow, but exceedingly fine) [
__](https://telegram.me/share/url?url=https://outlierventures.io/the-secs-
reminder-the-wheels-of-justice-grind-slow-but-exceedingly-fine&text=The SEC’s
reminder: the wheels of justice grind slow, but exceedingly fine)

_**by Jocelyn Roberts**_



The SEC issued [a public statement on digital
assets](https://www.sec.gov/news/public-statement/digital-asset-securites-
issuuance-and-trading) on Friday 16 November, in addition to issuing [cease
and desist orders](https://www.sec.gov/news/press-release/2018-264) against
two ICO issuers, Paragon and Airfox.



Based on the SEC’s comments in its public statement, it intends for these
enforcement actions to provide a model for other currently non-compliant ICO
issuers to take action to bring themselves into compliance: it remains to be
seen how much sympathy the SEC will show to any projects who fail to do so,
whether through ignorance or misplaced optimism.

The actions taken against the ICO issuers seem to indicate a new phase of the
SEC’s approach to ICOs: unlike previous actions, neither involved fraud so the
SEC is clearly progressing beyond the so-called “low hanging fruit”. Having
said that, both the Airfox and Paragon ICOs appear to fall pretty squarely
within the SEC’s characterisation of a securities offering based on its
previous guidance (including the speech by William Hinman in June 2018[
https://www.sec.gov/news/speech/speech-
hinman-061418](https://www.sec.gov/news/speech/speech-hinman-061418)).



Particular factors mentioned include:

(i) **Functionality** : the tokens were not functional at the point of ICO and
there was an expectation that functionality would be built with the proceeds
of the sale. In particular, the Airfox order reported that Airfox did not have
any real users at the time of the ICO.

(ii) **Expectation of profit :** in both cases, promises were made to
potential investors that created an expectation of profit, including through
the creation of an “ecosystem”. These were not just implicit: for example,
Paragon stated that the PRG token “is designed to appreciate in value”.

(iii) **Exchanges :** both projects had stated an intention to seek to create
a secondary market through listing on exchanges, which is another step viewed
as being in order to increase the value of the tokens.

(iv) **Marketing of tokens :** in the case of Airfox, it was noted that the
tokens were marketed to investors rather than anticipated users. So although
the sale documents had included a representation of purchasers that they were
buying the tokens for their utility, and not as an investment or a security,
given that they were marketed to investors and did not have the necessary
functionality available for use, the SEC focused on substance over form.

(v) **US publicity :** both tokens were offered and sold in general
solicitation that included potential investors in the US. Even if there was
not a focus on marketing to US investors, no steps were taken by either of the
projects to restrict the access of US investors to marketing materials or from
acquiring tokens in the public sale.

Given that the tokens were clearly not utility tokens at the moment of the
sale, the orders did not need to provide a nuanced argument around whether or
not the ICOs were offerings of securities. They unfortunately do not,
therefore, provide any further clarification on the SEC’s approach in
determining in what circumstances a digital asset is not a security.
Potentially, this will be provided by the SEC’s anticipated “plain English”
guidance on token offerings ([https://www.coindesk.com/sec-official-says-
plain-english-guidance-on-icos-is-coming](https://www.coindesk.com/sec-
official-says-plain-english-guidance-on-icos-is-coming)).

The orders provided for the payment of penalties of US$250,000 by Airfox and
Paragon and also the requirement to register the tokens as securities and file
periodic reports. In addition, the token issuers are required to offer to
compensate investors who seek to make a claim. The intention here is to
address the information asymmetries between the projects and the investors in
order to enable investors to make an informed choice around whether to
continue to hold the tokens or to claim reimbursement. This therefore places
both an administrative burden on the projects and potentially a high financial
cost.

In its statement, the SEC confirmed that these orders provide a model for
companies that have issued tokens in ICOs and that seek to comply with federal
securities laws. The message is clear: any ICO issuers who have sold tokens in
the US other than in accordance with securities laws should seriously consider
voluntary remedial action or risk the SEC taking enforcement action against
them.



Following the example set in the orders would require an ICO issuer to offer
to reimburse investors, which may be a difficult ask for some ICO issuers,
especially those that have not fared well during the crypto winter. However,
given that the SEC has expressly highlighted this as a path to compliance with
federal securities laws, failure to take steps now could result in even more
onerous enforcement penalties for projects that choose to ignore the SEC’s
guidance.



### **Conclusions**

This is an important step by the SEC in taking proactive measures to shepherd
those parts of the market that have already carried out ICOs but have failed
to comply with securities laws and the guidance provided by the SEC, whilst
also providing US investors with means of remedy. It is also important to note
that this does not seem to challenge the concept of a utility token or the
general idea of a token sale. However, there remain significant outstanding
ambiguities.



Further regulatory clarification would be welcomed, particularly on the
possible factors that the SEC will consider in assessing whether an offering
of a digital asset would be considered an investment contract and, therefore,
a security. Without that, digital assets remain in a grey area which serves
neither issuers, investors nor regulators.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

