[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/177be9b70285&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Dapper
Labs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*4qrJW34TWRKo2UlCo9IqbQ.png)](https://medium.com/dapperlabs?source=post_page
-----177be9b70285--------------------------------)

Published in

[Dapper Labs

](https://medium.com/dapperlabs?source=post_page-----
177be9b70285--------------------------------)

[![Dapper
Labs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*4qrJW34TWRKo2UlCo9IqbQ.png)](/@hellodapper?source=post_page
-----177be9b70285--------------------------------)

[Dapper Labs](/@hellodapper?source=post_page-----
177be9b70285--------------------------------)

Follow

Sep 18, 2019

·

5 min read

# The Cheeze Wizards Tournament begins on October 14

## This guide is your step-by-step walkthrough to the Tournament, where one
magical winner will be awarded a grand prize of over $100,000!

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*YiFTuJ63IQX2Z76lrmfRig.png)

The three phases of the Cheeze Wizards Tournament.

When the Cheeze Wizards Tournament begins on October 14th, three phases will
eventually lead to one player being crowned the Big Cheeze, with over
$100,000+ in cheddar accompanying the title.

  1. The Gathering
  2. The Beat and Greet
  3. The Championship

Remember, a portion of every ether spent summoning Wizards will go towards the
Big Cheeze prize. After the weeklong pre-sale in May, the Big Cheeze was at
600+ ETH (~US$100,000+). That number is only going to get bigger as Wizards
are summoned and the tournament progresses.

> The Big Cheeze Grand Prize is over 600 ETH (US$100,000+), and that number is
> only going to get bigger!

Even if you don’t become the Big Cheeze, there are side quest rewards, with
over 120ETH (~US$20,000+) in prizes revealed _so far_.

# Phase 0: The Presale

 **From Friday, May 17th to Friday, May 24th (already passed!)**

During The Presale, players could:

  * 🧙 Summon the very first Cheeze Wizards

If you were quick enough to summon Wizards during the presale, you’ve already
gotten a head start on your Wizard army. If not, you can always shop for
[Wizards sold by players over at
OpenSea](https://opensea.io/category/cheezewizard).

But don’t despair if you’re holding out for Wizards who aren’t gently used.
Once the Gathering kicks off, you’ll be able to summon regular edition Wizards
again for a limited time.

> [Here’s what happened during Cheeze Wizards weeklong presale in
> May](/dapperlabs/results-from-the-cheeze-wizards-pre-sale-e921340ebece)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*1eKP17lI4-LyTMCd13SSiw.png)

Phase 1 of 3: The Gathering

# Phase 1: The Gathering

 **From October 14th to October 21st**

During The Gathering, players can:

  * 🧙 Summon Wizards

The Gathering is the official start to the Cheeze Wizards Tournament. Once the
Mother Dragon’s udder has been re-filled with magical Wizard-making milk,
you’ll be able to pick up where the presale left off and summon Wizards once
more.

Neutral Wizards will always cost 0.07 ETH to summon, and will always come with
70 power. Each Elemental Wizard summoned will have power proportional to its
summoning cost, and will cost a small amount more than the most recently
summoned Elemental Wizard. The bigger and more diverse your Wizard army is,
the better your chances of winning are likely to be.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*0zWibIWPNuuFlEZubQ7MIA.png)

Phase 2 of 3: The Greet and Beat

# Phase 2: The Beat and Greet

 **From October 21 to November 4th**

During The Beat and Greet, players can:

  * 🧙 Summon Wizards
  * ⚔️ Duel Wizards

This phase is where all the trash-talking finally turns to action. For the
first time, Wizards will be able to throw down and duel for that sweet, sweet
power.

[> To prepare, you can learn how duels work here.](/dapperlabs/a-step-by-step-
walkthrough-of-a-cheeze-wizards-duel-b262701792e5)

This is your opportunity to get a feel for dueling and play at your own pace
before the Blue Mold begins its inexorable, exponential rise to the top of the
tower. Each time you win or lose a duel, your Wizard’s power level will rise
or fall, so watch out. It’s possible that a Wizard can be fully drained during
this phase of the Tournament.

But don’t worry: you’ll still have the option to summon a new Wizard.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*BkKwuT21dEao5QAw_D36Ew.png)

Phase 3of 3: The Championship

# Phase 3: The Championship

 **From November 4th until all but one Wizard remain**

During the final phase, The Championship:

  * ⚔️ Players can duel Wizards
  * ☢️ The Blue Mold begins, signalling the beginning of the end of the tournament

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*Yn6iFakjgkDLmpzK1A7ybA.png)

This Championship phase begins a race against the terrifying Blue Mold. Once
the Blue Mold begins consuming the Tower, no new Wizards can be summoned. If a
Wizard gets knocked out of the Tournament in this phase, they’re shredded. Out
for good.

The power level of the Blue Mold will double every day as the dank substance
takes over the Tower. Any Wizards below the Blue Mold power level will have
all of their power consumed by this sinister fermented force. Also, any time a
Wizard loses enough of their power in a duel to drop below the level of the
Blue Mold, the opposing Wizard will be able to steal all of the pasteurized
Wizard’s power!

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*CadzpZWf1aN6TKMd1ZIywg.png)

But there’s a tiny window of hope: When a Wizard is in danger of being
eliminated by the next doubling of Blue Mold, you’ll see a new option
available to your Wizard: Ascension.

Stay tuned—we’ll have a step-by-step walkthrough on Ascension soon!

# In the end, there can only be one Big Cheeze!

As the Championship phase continues and the Blue Mold rises, fewer Wizards
will be left in the Tournament. When the final dueling pair lay down their
wands, and but one Wizard remains standing… that Wizard shall be crowned the
Big Cheeze. Along with the legendairy honorific comes the Big Cheeze prize:
one big, stinkin’ pile of ETH.

Now that’s some good cheddar.

# Want to join the magic?

All you need to get started in Cheeze Wizards is an email. Once you sign up,
we’ll keep you up-to-date on the upcoming tournament.

> [Sign up for Cheeze Wizards
> tournament!](https://cheezewizards.com/?utm_source=DLblog)

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Dapper Labs](/dapperlabs?source=post_page-----
177be9b70285--------------------------------)

The serious business of fun and games on the blockchain

[Read more from Dapper Labs](/dapperlabs?source=post_page-----
177be9b70285--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Christopher M.
Jones](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*6iLSVvn_Q7PzqpDK.jpg)](/@christophermjones?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Christopher M. Jones

](/@christophermjones?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## The Polygon 500 And Why We Still Don’t Think Of Games As Art

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*fr-
kVhe5IoWJBhyVRQGGDA.jpeg)](/@christophermjones/the-polygon-500-and-why-we-
still-dont-think-of-games-as-art-70cbeb37f2af?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[[![VoxVot](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*7OvBlPK-
QXXW5FwqQlmDTQ.jpeg)](/@VoxVot?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[VoxVot

](/@VoxVot?source=post_internal_links---------1----------------------------)

## VoxVot: The Manga — Chapter Zero

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*8TBQgZrtNGCmzLYjf7A77Q.png)](/@VoxVot/voxvot-
the-manga-chapter-zero-2a52b618255a?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![NeftyBlocks](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*PuKj9kEEX-
zEsf_RFBLylA.png)](/@neftyblocks?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[NeftyBlocks

](/@neftyblocks?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Three Questions with Farm Wars

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*UpNoOiRcfzPogY3_Z-
iaiw.png)](/@neftyblocks/three-questions-with-farm-
wars-736c1f80b52c?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![MIXMARVEL](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Lmg30I_2GnmgYi9_8WCe5Q@2x.png)](/@mixmarvelgame?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[MIXMARVEL

](/@mixmarvelgame?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

in

[MIXMARVEL Official Blog

](https://medium.com/mixmarvel-official-blog?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

## MixMarvel launching representative alliance for building a robust global
game…

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*vehEqNh-4tZ8wmAQYge_Hw.jpeg)](/mixmarvel-
official-blog/mixmarvel-launching-representative-alliance-for-building-a-
robust-global-game-f81c678dc986?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Edmond
Wu](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*fnA-0msmIM29_VR4de4gew.png)](/@edmond-
wu0895?source=post_internal_links---------4----------------------------)

[Edmond Wu

](/@edmond-wu0895?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Persona 5 Royal Review: Japanese Robin Hood

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*FoazWSewOBVO9TVEpOk3JA.jpeg)](/@edmond-
wu0895/persona-5-royal-japanese-robin-
hood-b8eec6a8b2e0?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Andy](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*_UvDVUI5iYXg8pp-q4-bgw.jpeg)](/@Ryew101?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Andy

](/@Ryew101?source=post_internal_links---------5----------------------------)

in

[Ryew101

](https://medium.com/ryew101?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Someday You’ll Return Review (PC)

](/ryew101/someday-youll-return-review-
pc-8ebc79e45b55?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Alex
Ferri](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*svvpPbgJ80x0bsyL.jpg)](/@alexferri?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Alex Ferri

](/@alexferri?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## NA CS Playoffs: GCU impresses, TS depresses

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*gMoXyo_qmKwMAeo3D9WW9g.jpeg)](/@alexferri/na-
cs-playoffs-gcu-impresses-ts-depresses-79bd8d3eb3c3?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[[![Jeff
Onan](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*CZ1HGveQEXXOXSkcrGC0xQ.png)](/@jeffonan?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Jeff Onan

](/@jeffonan?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

in

[Golden Sands Blogpost

](https://medium.com/golden-sands-blogpost?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Seabound Soul Tall Tale Walkthrough

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Wh4qAn83WYZa0eq10i8PYw.png)](/golden-
sands-blogpost/seabound-soul-tall-tale-
walkthrough-c042321f4f0f?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----177be9b70285--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
177be9b70285--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
177be9b70285--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
177be9b70285--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
177be9b70285--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----177be9b70285--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----177be9b70285--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdapperlabs%2Fa-
step-by-step-guide-to-the-cheeze-wizards-
tournament-177be9b70285&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Dapper
Labs](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*4qrJW34TWRKo2UlCo9IqbQ.png)](/@hellodapper)

[

## Dapper Labs

](/@hellodapper)

800 Followers

The serious business of fun and games on the blockchain

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F92fd7014333&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdapperlabs%2Fa-
step-by-step-guide-to-the-cheeze-wizards-
tournament-177be9b70285&newsletterV3=6544777e30d2&newsletterV3Id=92fd7014333&user=Dapper+Labs&userId=6544777e30d2&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Moonshot Collective Anon](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*NB2AEQ-
Ji2hKeg7O-2tbJQ.png)](/@moonshotanon?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------7d935fa7_706c_43e5_91d2_d653e2221131-------)

[Moonshot Collective Anon

](/@moonshotanon?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
7d935fa7_706c_43e5_91d2_d653e2221131-------)

in

[Moonshot Collective

](https://medium.com/moonshot-collective?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------7d935fa7_706c_43e5_91d2_d653e2221131-------)

## Moonshot Collective Recap for January 2022

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*gDy9UG-1aMExyJoQ4ptGQQ.png)](/moonshot-
collective/moonshot-collective-recap-for-
january-2022-8d9328dc5318?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------7d935fa7_706c_43e5_91d2_d653e2221131-------)

[[![Sarthak Khurana](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*wph-
Mg-r6_Tz57caWUmJOw.png)](/@sarthak_khurana?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------7d935fa7_706c_43e5_91d2_d653e2221131-------)

[Sarthak Khurana

](/@sarthak_khurana?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
7d935fa7_706c_43e5_91d2_d653e2221131-------)

in

[Meta Blocks

](https://medium.com/meta-blocks?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------7d935fa7_706c_43e5_91d2_d653e2221131-------)

## How to Make Upgradeable NFTs

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*R6czoZps_RRIKCLK.png)](/meta-
blocks/how-to-make-upgradeable-nfts-a02c86612da4?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------7d935fa7_706c_43e5_91d2_d653e2221131-------)

[[![Degen
Blues](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*r42tvDm69vPPQiS0aJoVqw.png)](/@degenblues?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------7d935fa7_706c_43e5_91d2_d653e2221131-------)

[Degen Blues

](/@degenblues?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
7d935fa7_706c_43e5_91d2_d653e2221131-------)

## Degen Blues launches groundbreaking musical NFT collection that reacts to
on-chain data, powered by…

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*4rPkD9siuVc_oBMhZKmdQQ.png)](/@degenblues/degen-
blues-launch-b50614a32137?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------7d935fa7_706c_43e5_91d2_d653e2221131-------)

[[![Wrapped Companions Development
Team](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*oMHCP3YB7XISL3d5w5pH_w.png)](/@wrappedcompanions?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------7d935fa7_706c_43e5_91d2_d653e2221131-------)

[Wrapped Companions Development Team

](/@wrappedcompanions?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
7d935fa7_706c_43e5_91d2_d653e2221131-------)

## NFT or as I like to call it….Need For Transparency

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*-PQux2-NqRW_KSEtFECh2Q.png)](/@wrappedcompanions/nft-
or-as-i-like-to-call-it-need-for-
transparency-83cabd96741f?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------7d935fa7_706c_43e5_91d2_d653e2221131-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

