For better experience, please enable JavaScript.

[Multicoin Capital](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * Media
  * More
  * [Contact](/contact/)

![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

  * [English](/2019/12/13/the-web3-stack-2019-edition/)
  * [中文](/zh/2019/12/13/the-web3-stack-2019-edition/)
  * [한국어](/ko/2019/12/13/the-web3-stack-2019-edition/)
  * 日本語

![](data:image/png;base64,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)

### Search posts

dark mode

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

  * [Archives](https://github.com/multicoincapital/crypto-archives)
  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)

[Featured](/blog/category/featured/)

## The Web3 Stack, 2019 Edition

By [Kyle Samani](/about#225b2112-7be1-5fc9-8755-db7e245ba5a5)

December 13, 2019 | 12 minute read

![Copy URL to clipboard
button](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

**Disclosure:** _Multicoin has established, maintains and enforces written
policies and procedures reasonably designed to identify and effectively manage
conflicts of interest related to its investment activities. Multicoin Capital
abides by a “No Trade Policy” for the assets listed in this report for 72
hours (“No Trade Period”) following its public release. No officer, director
or employee shall purchase or sell any of the aforementioned assets during the
No Trade Period. At the time of publication of this report, Multicoin Capital
is long Kadena, Near, Solana, Dfinity, Keep, dfuse, The Graph, Livepeer,
Arweave, and Coda._

A year ago, I illustrated [the Web3
stack](https://multicoin.capital/2018/07/10/the-web3-stack/ "The Web3 Stack")
as I understood it at the time.

I have learned more, and the ecosystem has evolved since then, so I decided to
update the Web3 stack.

Whereas the 2018 Edition was just a flat visualization of a single instance of
the Web3 stack, the 2019 Edition aims to show the Web3 stack as a set of
interoperable networks. In order to do this, I organized the 2019 Edition into
4 images (plus a bonus), starting from a narrow view, and zooming out from
there. You can download all 5 images in
[English](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/94rhktuzhwuseqe/AAANsmW1VSAlLZuRJxZpzwhJa?dl=0
"English Web3 Stack 2019 Visualizations Folder"),
[Chinese](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/o9yt2f9iotclvgh/AAC4ykL4TTnSU9xo-
QTn05jna?dl=0 "Chinese Web3 Stack 2019 Edition Folder"), and
[Korean](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/hri7rntodt8r1nj/AADnMkQ2vP-1jqMoT5h395SZa?dl=0
"Korean Visualizations").

The images are large, and can be difficult to be read on the Multicoin website
or in your email inbox. While they are included below, you may need to
download them and open them in a dedicated image viewer to understand them.
The images are labeled v2.1, v2.2, v2.3, v2.4, and v2.1bonus for
referenceability.

The remainder of this post will be organized as follows: I’ll present some
observations and commentary on themes that are observable across the
ecosystem. Then I’ll explain how these observations are reflected in our
portfolio construction. And I’ll conclude by summarizing each of the 4+1
images.

 **Observation #1: Heterogeneity, Fragmentation, and Uncertainty**

The most salient difference between the 2018 Edition and 2019 Edition is that
the 2018 Edition didn’t do a good job of showcasing the heterogeneity of the
Web3 stack. When I published the 2018 Edition in July 2018, there weren’t any
smart contract chains running other than Ethereum. Today there are ecosystems
growing around Ethereum, EOS, Tezos, and Cosmos, and there are smaller
communities forming around soon-to-launch chains like Kadena, Polkadot, Near,
Solana, Dfinity, Tari, and Coda. It’s clear that the Web3 ecosystem is
becoming much more heterogeneous, as I wrote about earlier this year in [The
Unbundling of Ethereum](https://multicoin.capital/2019/05/24/the-unbundling-
of-ethereum/ "The Unbundling of Ethereum ").

A year ago, developers didn’t have to think about which chain to build on
because there was only one option. Today, the sheer number of options is
creating a lot of complexity, both for teams who’ve built protocols and
services on an existing chain and for new teams entering crypto. Let’s
consider one example of each:

[Aragon](https://aragon.one/ "Aragon ") is one of the earlier protocols built
on Ethereum. A few weeks ago, the Aragon team
[announced](https://blog.aragon.one/aragon-chain/ "Aragon Chain") that they’re
going to expand the reach of their protocol by building on the Cosmos SDK,
while continuing to support the Aragon protocol on Ethereum. They cited high
and variable fees as their primary motivations for switching (I noted that
fees would be one of the primary drivers forcing teams away from Ethereum in
[The Unbundling of Ethereum](https://multicoin.capital/2019/05/24/the-
unbundling-of-ethereum/ "The Unbundling of Ethereum ")).

[Terra](https://terra.money/ "Terra") is powering over
[$1M](https://station.terra.money/ "Station Terra Money") of Korean ecommerce
every day, and adoption is quickly growing. The Terra team chose to build on
the Cosmos SDK because they need fast and inexpensive payments.

Looking across the Web3 ecosystem, I see the rate of fragmentation
accelerating. Although most developers consider Ethereum before any other
chains, many teams have requirements that Ethereum cannot support. This is
creating lots of opportunities for the protocol developers of other chains,
and the challenger chains are moving as quickly as they can to take to support
application developers.

This fragmentation is being exacerbated by the uncertainty around both Eth 1.0
and 2.0. For example, the Ethereum core developers recently [delayed
(indefinitely?)](https://thedefiant.substack.com/p/devcon-day-1-ethereum-
roadmap-uniswap "The Defiant") state rent on the 1.0 chain. While this is good
for existing contracts, it’s arguably bad for the Ethereum ecosystem in the
long run because it leaves even more questions unanswered for a longer period
of time. Meanwhile, it’s clear that the Eth 2.0 spec is still far from being
finalized; the shard count for Eth 2.0 was recently
[reduced](https://notes.ethereum.org/@vbuterin/HkiULaluS "Ethereum.org") from
1,024 to 64.

 _Developers don’t want to continually worry about the underlying protocol
introducing breaking changes._

There will be a real opportunity for the first chain that can offer all of the
following:

  1. High throughput, low latency, low fees, sufficient consensus-layer decentralization, and clear scaling solution
  2. A robust execution environment and dev tooling
  3. Minimal application/shard/layer 2 complexity
  4. Strong assurances about backwards compatibility and ongoing future stability

Developers don’t want to continually worry about the underlying protocol
introducing breaking changes. They want a reliable foundation on top of which
they can build.

 **Observation #2: The Rise Of Middleware**

In the 2018 Edition, I highlighted the middleware stack on the right side of
the stack. In the 2019 Edition, I segmented the middleware between on-chain
protocols and off-chain services.

Over the last year, there’s been an explosion in middleware, most notably in
the form of [Open Finance](https://multicoin.capital/2019/04/24/multicoin-
investment-thesis/ "Multicoin Investment Thesis ") (aka DeFi) in the Ethereum
ecosystem. While there are some questions about value capture for some types
of Open Finance protocols like [Set](https://www.tokensets.com/ "Token Sets"),
others like [Compound](https://compound.finance/ "Compound") and
[Maker](https://makerdao.com/ "MakerDao") have clear [value capture
mechanisms](https://multicoin.capital/2019/03/14/on-value-capture-at-
layers-1-and-2/ "Value Capture at Layer 1 and 2 ").

To the best of my knowledge, none of the on-chain middleware protocols have
yet been ported over to other chains. However, some off-chain services are
porting across chains. [Loom](https://loomx.io/ "Loom") is
[running](https://medium.com/loom-network/connecting-ethereum-eos-and-tron-
making-blockchain-interoperability-a-reality-e5ef6c67716 "Connecting Ethereum
EOS and Tron") across Ethereum, EOS, and Tron, and even allows users to
transport DAI across all three chains. With the uncertainty around Eth 2.0,
the rise of the Cosmos ecosystem, and the growth of new ecosystems, I expect
we’ll see an acceleration in the growth of cross-chain services over the next
12 months. For example, services like [Keep](https://keep.network/ "Keep
Network")’s tBTC are naturally going to be used to port BTC to Ethereum and
Binance Chain, among many others.

Some services will be ported as is across chains, and will still offer largely
the same functionality. For example, Keep’s tBTC is fundamentally the same
service, regardless of which chain tBTC is ported to. Meanwhile, other off-
chain services like [dFuse](https://www.dfuse.io/en "dFuse") and [The
Graph](https://thegraph.com/ "The Graph ") become better as they support more
chains. As these services add support for use-case specific chains like
[Arweave](https://www.arweave.org/ "Arweave") (pay once and receive permanent
file storage built on IPFS) and [Handshake](https://handshake.org/
"Handshake") (decentralized DNS), these services increasingly act as a single
abstraction layer for developers regardless of where the underlying data
lives. As such, the proliferation of these kinds of off-chain services will
accelerate the rate of development of the entire ecosystem.

The other common theme across off-chain services is that they generally seem
to be adopting the [work token
model](https://multicoin.capital/2018/02/13/new-models-utility-tokens/ "New
Models for Utility Tokens"). This reflects a consensus view among developers
that application-specific payment currencies without velocity sinks will not
capture value, and that work tokens provide a quantifiable way to value of an
off-chain service.

In addition to bespoke off-chain services, both the Cosmos and Polkadot
ecosystems are embracing the work token model. In the Cosmos ecosystem, each
Zone is going to be secured using its native staking token, while validators
are likely to generate most of their income from transaction fees on more
liquid payment tokens such as tBTC and stablecoins. Since most Cosmos Zones
won’t have native, liquid payment currencies, It’s expected that each Zone
will leverage Cosmos’s Inter Blockchain Communication (IBC) protocol to port
tBTC and stablecoins to each zone for use in payments and smart contracts.
Moreover, ATOMs, the native token of the Cosmos Hub, is a work token that will
generate fees from passing messages between many Zones. Polkadot’s DOTs are
analogous to ATOMs: they perform the same function - passing messages between
Parachains - in exchange for fees.

Lastly, to be clear, I believe that middleware protocols and services can
capture value in a separate and modular way from layer 1 smart contract
platforms. Because the value of middleware protocols can be valued using
traditional discounted cash flow (DCF) models, middleware protocols and
services should be able to capture value regardless of which underlying chain
wins. However, most general purpose Layer 1’s are ultimately competing to be
[non-sovereign money](https://multicoin.capital/2019/04/24/multicoin-
investment-thesis/ "Multicoin Investment Thesis "), and value capture at Layer
1 will be independent of value capture for middleware layers.

### Web3 Stack 2019 Edition: Single Chain, Flat Visualization

This first image is an updated version of the Web3 stack I illustrated last
year:

![1 Single Chain Flat
Visualization](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/3vVrpPCFUNBsw4EioWROfV/b6d6067d7bcc097f667a4a0dea3dfc9f/1_Single_Chain_Flat_Visualization.png)

The most important changes are:

  1. Categorizing on-chain protocols and off-chain services. The eventual vision is that all of the mechanical infrastructure enabling Web3 is abstracted such that developers can focus their efforts on higher level problems. As such, an increasing percentage of apps are building on top of other protocols on a single chain, leveraging the modularity of on-chain smart contracts. This is clear in Ethereum’s open finance ecosystem. Modularity and composability are the defining characteristics of Open Finance. Most of the on-chain protocols shown in this diagram are Open Finance related.

  2. The Web3 stack runs across many different physical computers organized into separate logical networks. The 2018 Edition showed the whole stack as if it ran on a single piece of hardware. The 2019 Edition breaks out where each layer of the stack runs using the segmentation on the left. This makes it much easier to follow and see where different physical machines are interacting with one another.

  3. I removed a number of the optional components from the core stack—side chains, Interledger Protocol (ILP), and state channels—and listed them as optional components on the right instead. This makes the image as a whole easier to read, and presents a more consistent logical representation of the stacked networks, as I show in the next image in the 2019 Edition.

I also created a version of this illustration with companies building in the
Web3 ecosystem.

![5 Single Chain Flat Visualization with
companies](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/5ZeZAghtDBs1PZmlPgQGK8/dba48f52a531d03912481ca84a9f3ced/5_Single_Chain_Flat_Visualization_with_companies.png)

### Web3 Stack 2019 Edition: Single Chain, Layered Visualization

The second image in the 2019 Edition is fundamentally showing the same pieces
of the stack as the first. However, whereas the first illustrates the stack
flatly, the second shows the stack as networks of physical computers. This
visualization makes a few things more clear than the first image: where each
sub-stack starts and stops, this one more clearly shows the layering of the
sub-stacks across different logical networks, and shows API call flows across
networks.

![2 Single Chain Layered
Visualization](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/76vYNdcMv46GW7BZEIPdcU/a980ab0393bba4ed9d8b9387fb307986/2_Single_Chain_Layered_Visualization.png)

In this image, I showcase three example middleware networks: a query layer
network such as [The Graph](https://thegraph.com/ "The Graph "), a side-chain
network such as [Skale](https://skale.network/ "Skale "), and a permanent
storage network such as [Arweave](https://www.arweave.org/ "Arweave") (which
can also be used as a data availability layer for any other network).
Depending on the specific application, there could be many other middleware
networks involved. I highlighted these three because they’re the networks I
expect will be the most widely used. This is why we invested in all three.

Some other interesting observations: First, the layers aren’t strictly
ordered. For example, the query layer can index data from side chains and
storage networks. Second, end-user clients don’t have to rely strictly on
middleware networks. They can query data from layer 1 networks directly
(although this often results in a poor UX, and as such we expect it to be less
common overtime as query layers become more robust and widely adopted). Third,
an independent data availability network can act as a data availability layer
for a Layer 1 (this is not visualized).

### Web3 Stack 2019 Edition: Multi-Chain, Flat Visualization

As I alluded to above, the Web3 ecosystem is becoming more heterogenous rather
than homogenous. This is only natural as more Layer 1’s launch. This image
attempts to illustrate what the ecosystem may look like as more chains launch
and get connected to one another:

![3 Multi-Chain Flat
Visualization](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/6dX6mpGeKQt96E6Wxho603/76b2c9f10d462dd30a65dbc941ea2000/3_Multi-
Chain_Flat_Visualization.png)

While the Cosmos team expects there to be multiple hubs over time, it’s
impossible to know which chains will connect with which hubs ahead of time. I
included two Cosmos hubs because 1) I couldn’t fit all the non-Polkadot
parachains around a single hub 2) the expectation that there will be many
hubs. Obviously only one of the hubs can be powered by ATOMs. The second could
be Iris, or could be some other hub. Binance Chain (which is built using the
Cosmos SDK) itself could even become a hub, especially if Binance DEX develops
enough liquidity to act as a trust-minimized price oracle for all other
chains.

Given how early the interoperability mechanisms are, this illustration doesn’t
tell us much. Rather, it presents a vision for what the future could look
like. The vision I’m projecting is rather clean; in reality it’s likely that
things will be messier. For example, Binance Chain already facilitates more
economic activity than every chain other than Bitcoin and Ethereum. Moreover,
BNB has a higher market cap and is far more liquid than ATOMs, meaning that
Binance Chain is likely to offer much more consensus safety than an ATOM based
chain. And lastly, Binance Chain is primarily a DEX, which can (with enough
liquidity) act as a trust-minimized price oracle. With these three structural
advantages, it’s possible that the Cosmos SDK becomes the de facto standard in
development, and that Binance Chain and BNB accrue all the value.

I also included a single Interledger Protocol (ILP) bridge between Bitcoin and
the Ethereum 1.0 (in the bottom right area) to show that not all forms of
interoperability need to be in the form of atomic messages passed through hub
chains. While ILP can theoretically bridge every chain illustrated, I chose
not to illustrate that as it would make the image unreadable.

### Web3 Stack 2019 Edition: Multi-Chain, Layered Visualization

The final image is a combination of the previous two images. The purpose of
this visualization is to highlight that middleware networks will operate
across a few Layer 1s:

![4 Multi-Chain Layered
Visualization](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/5piOhVxqThLaBDnDFl8Bfu/3b77ced70d77e4b006242100ca1a9b88/4_Multi-
Chain_Layered_Visualization.png)

For readability purposes, I: 1) dropped ILP 2) didn’t include blue arrows
between various end user client and middleware stacks.

### Concluding Thoughts

The most incredible thing about the Web3 stack is that it’s coming together
without any centralized coordination. The development itself is decentralized.
There is no master architect. This stands in stark contrast to virtually every
other development stack on the planet. There just a handful of people at the
Linux Foundation setting the direction of Linux. The same is true at Google
with regards to Android, and at Apple regarding iOS, etc. A few senior people
at the top of these organizations dictate the overall architecture of these
massive ecosystems.

Given the lack of centralized coordination, it’s honestly incredible that any
of this works at all. Things are still clunky, sure, but the developer and
user experiences are improving rapidly throughout the stack.

Big shifts tend to happen slowly, then all at once. The current development
paradigm for the Web3 is likely to follow a similar pattern. It’s hard to
forecast when exactly the hockey stick will turn upwards, but at least today
the market can see the basic shapes and outlines of all the major pieces, and
there’s a general understanding in the developer community of how it will all
fit together.

 _Thanks to[Peng Zhong](https://twitter.com/zcpeng "Peng Zhong") and [Avani
Miriyala](https://twitter.com/avanimiriyala "Avani Miriyala") for the design
help on the images._

+ Show More

[Read NextWelcoming Mable Jiang To Multicoin Capital](/2019/12/05/welcoming-
mable-jiang-to-multicoin-capital/)

![Kyle
Samani](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/4OF6ywwNnbQLmD5qsIQ9kF/29aa033b59f51bc65fff3729e6948fe4/kyle_samani__2_.jpg)

By [Kyle Samani](/about#225b2112-7be1-5fc9-8755-db7e245ba5a5)

[@kylesamani](https://twitter.com/KyleSamani)

More Tags

[Writing](/blog/category/blog/)[Featured](/blog/category/featured/)[Podcasts](/podcasts/)[Videos](/videos/)

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER FOR THE BEST INSIGHTS IN CRYPTO

[![phoenix](//images.ctfassets.net/qtbqvna1l0yq/72L5sEuJXOA7PvWBZM540E/27909d6ff5cda80158665ca43514b11c/phoenix_logo_white.svg)Subscribe](/)

  * [About](/about/)
  * [Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [Team](/about#team)
  * [Thesis](/thesis/)

* * *

  * [RSS feed](/rss.xml)
  * [Press](/press/)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.multicoin.capital/)
  * [Legal](/legal/)
  * [Summit](/summit/)

  * [Podcasts](/podcasts/)
  * [Videos](/videos/)
  * [Subscribe](https://multicoin.capital/)
  * [Contact](/contact/)

### GET IN TOUCH

We’re always looking for compelling ideas, business, and partnership
opportunities. We also enjoy reading your feedback. If you’re submitting a
business proposal, please include a clear description and any resources that
could help us evaluate your opportunity.

[hello@multicoin.capital](mailto:hello@multicoin.capital)

* * *

![Multicoin
Capital](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)

## Multicoin Capital

©2017-2021 Multicoin Capital. All Rights Reserved.

