[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# The Convergence Stack webinar featuring ANVIL

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

The Convergence Stack webinar featuring ANVIL

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/ov_aron-150x150.jpg)

May 2019

Posted by

Aron van Ammers

CTO and Founding Partner

Before Outlier Ventures, Aron completed an MSc in Business Information
Technology and has over 15 years of experience in software development in the
roles of CTO, architect, designer, consultant, developer and systems engineer
in both start-up and enterprise environments. He has extensive knowledge and
hands-on experience with full stack software development, decentralised
systems and smart contracts....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/aron-van-ammers/)

## Watch a LIVE demo of ‘ANVIL’ an interaction framework that bridges Fetch.AI
and Sovrin

[The Convergence Stack webinar featuring ANVIL](https://vimeo.com/327107989)
from [Outlier Ventures](https://vimeo.com/outlierventures) on
[Vimeo](https://vimeo.com).

Posted by Aron van Ammers - May 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/ov_aron-150x150.jpg)

May 2019

Posted by

Aron van Ammers

CTO and Founding Partner

Before Outlier Ventures, Aron completed an MSc in Business Information
Technology and has over 15 years of experience in software development in the
roles of CTO, architect, designer, consultant, developer and systems engineer
in both start-up and enterprise environments. He has extensive knowledge and
hands-on experience with full stack software development, decentralised
systems and smart contracts....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/aron-van-ammers/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

Outlier Ventures supports the development of the next era of digital
infrastructure: The Convergence Stack. They anticipate the convergence of
blockchains with IoT, AI and robotics and the stack is the set of
decentralized technologies that are needed to replace the broken Web.

Outlier Ventures Labs invite you to a virtual conversation with two technical
leaders of the core components: Toby Simpson, CTO of
[Fetch.AI](https://fetch.ai/), decentralised AI for the machine economy and
Ken Ebert, Software Architect and OS Engineer, [Sovrin](https://sovrin.org/)
the new standard for digital identity. They will be showcasing a LIVE demo of
the highly synergistic technologies in practice, introducing their latest
project: ANVIL.

**If you are a developer, the Stack enables you to be part of an ecosystem of
open-source technologies spanning hardware, software and p2p networking. As a
business who produces, processes and derives value from data, the stack offers
a framework for navigating decentralisation, blockchain and Web 3.**

**You will:**

  * Learn what The Convergence Stack is and how it supports a more secure, accessible and equitable digital infrastructure
  * See a LIVE demo of ANVIL, an app in the Convergence Stack that marries Sovrin’s digital identity standard to Fetch.AI’s decentralised economy
  * Learn how The Convergence Stack will benefit the whole decentralised ecosystem
  * Find out how to be part of the progress of the stack moving forwards

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

