[ Woobull ](https://woobull.com)

  * [About](https://woobull.com/about/)
  * [Charts](http://charts.woobull.com/)
  * [Articles](https://woobull.com/)
  * [→ Research](https://woobull.com/tag/research/)
  * [→ Infographics](https://woobull.com/tag/infographic/)
  * [→ Humour](https://woobull.com/tag/humour/)
  * [→ Bitcoin](https://woobull.com/tag/bitcoin/)
  * [→ Markets](https://woobull.com/tag/markets/)
  * [→ Dataviz](https://woobull.com/tag/data-visualisation/)
  * [→ Altcoins](https://woobull.com/tag/altcoins/)
  * [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNSawUAJPtGqnhpucPqdDrw)

[ ](https://twitter.com/woonomic "Twitter")

Subscribe

[Bitcoin](https://woobull.com/tag/bitcoin/)

# The state of crypto-markets Q4, 2017

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

#### [Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/)

Dec 6, 2017 • 6 min read

## Preface:

Last week I spoke in front of an audience of 1000 fund managers, bankers, and
private equity folk in New York City at the inaugural Concensus Invest
conference organised by CoinDesk. Here are my slides and commentary.

* * *

![1-concensus-invest](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-
invest/1-concensus-invest.jpg)

Special thanks to [CoinDesk](http://www.coindesk.com) for making the day
possible.

![2-not-from-wall-street](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-
invest/2-not-from-wall-street.jpg)  
  
I don’t come from Wall St. I’m not a formally trained analyst. My background
comes from the world of emerging tech and startups. Hence my view and analysis
tends to be outside of the box.

![3-brain-farts](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-
invest/3-brain-farts.jpg)

I publish brain farts!

![4-woobulls-hits](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-
invest/4-woobulls-hits.jpg)

This is a brief overview of some of my stuff. Maybe we should call this
"Woobull’s greatest hits".

![5-3-cats-and-moon](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-
invest/5-3-cats-and-moon.jpg)

I published this "[3 cats and a moon](https://woobull.com/three-cats-and-a-
moon-a-data-driven-analysis-of-bitcoin-trader-psychology-for-predictive-price-
signalling/)" fractal pattern that BTC reliably traded for 3 years around
February this year. Interestingly it ceased to work after publication.

This was at the time of Bitcoin's ETF decision. My theory was that Wall St
money failed to enter via an ETF, so instead traders directly bought into the
asset around Mar 2017. We saw an uptick in price accordingly, when the price
really should have dropped lower according to my
[models](https://woobull.com/estimates-on-the-price-impact-and-capital-
inflows-of-a-bitcoin-etf/).

The new money changed the psychological trading profile that Bitcoin was
trading. A new animal had entered the market.

![6-nvt-ratio](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-invest/6-nvt-
ratio.jpg)

[NVT Ratio](https://woobull.com/introducing-nvt-ratio-bitcoins-pe-ratio-use-
it-to-detect-bubbles/) is another invention of mine. This works like Bitcoin’s
PE Ratio, indicating when BTC price has outstripped fundamental value. Like PE
Ratio in equities, fast growth companies exhibit higher ratios, similarly
Bitcoin exhibited higher NVT Ratio values in its early high growth phase.

Note this is a laggy indicator and is best used to distinguish overvaluation
(hence the start of a bear season) from a consolidation during the dead-cat
bounce phase of a price correction.

![7-half-a-percent](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-
invest/7-half-a-percent.jpg)

OK... so where are we today in 2017? We are at 0.5% of the world M2 money
supply.

![8-one-percent](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-invest/8-one-
percent.jpg)

We are at approximately 1% of world population as users. (Estimates range from
1-3%). This is equivalent to 1996 for the Internet.

![9-woos-law](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-invest/9-woos-
law.jpg)

With Bitcoin we are seeing user count double every 12 months. This was
calculated with my [work](https://woobull.com/woos-law-of-bitcoin-user-growth)
tracking Google Trends data on the assumption that users search BTCUSD price.

If this trend continues, we are **9 years away from half the world using
Bitcoin**.

![10-bitcoin-vs-m1](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-
invest/10-bitcoin-vs-m1.jpg)

Here’s another view of #Bitcoin’s growth on a long term chart. Remember, each
altitude climb here is a 10x. All crypto-assets combined is only 0.5% of World
M2 Money.

Seems small but we are 66% of the way on our journey to usurp USD M1 money.

![11-nearly-there](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-
invest/11-nearly-there.jpg)

Let me reiterate, **Bitcoin is 4 years out from exceeding the world reserve
currency.** Sounds radical, no?

![12-bitcoin-volatility](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-
invest/12-bitcoin-volatility.jpg)

The data suggests by 2022, Bitcoin’s volatility will also be nearly as low as
fiat FOREX.

**This means grandma can have a USD savings account earning 1% per year, or
she can have a BTC savings account earning 1% per week at similar risk
profiles.**

![13-altcoins-too](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-
invest/13-altcoins-too.jpg)

Now #Bitcoin is not the only story to be told here. We have strong competing
altcoins that are on an even higher trajectory, they may even cross USD M1
before Bitcoin. I’ve removed some of the top 10 coins to make this chart
clearer.

![14-digital-revolution](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-
invest/14-digital-revolution.jpg)

So let me zoom out a bit and talk about where we are in the 10,000 year view.

In 2013 they called it drug money. In 2017 they called it a bubble. It’s not
in a bubble. **We’re on the final part of digitising the world.**

We are seeing the final phase of the Post Industrial Revolution which started
in the 1960s-1990s with the invention of the microprocessor through to the
expansion of the Internet.

**Bitcoin is not just money. It’s the invention of an Internet-native digital
scarcity. And with that breakthrough, software will eat the financial world.**

Blockchain assets will be bigger than the approximately 70 trillion in money,
there’s another 80 trillion in equities, and I’m told well over 200 trillion
in real estate. This will all be digitised.

![15-crypto-assets-2018](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-
invest/15-crypto-assets-2018.jpg)

So where are we in 2018?

![16-investment-cycle](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-
invest/16-investment-cycle.jpg)

Stealth, Awareness, Mania, and Blow-off are the stages of the investment
cycle. With Bitcoin only the Geek money invested in the Stealth Phase. Smart
money was displaced to the Awareness Phase.

Normally institutional money arrives during the Awareness Phase, but due to
regulatory bars institutions were not allowed to enter. Hence we are now
seeing institutional money arrive late competing with retail money in the
early mania phase to create a super bull season right now in Q4 2017 and into
2018.

![17-bitcoin-dominance](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-
invest/17-bitcoin-dominance.jpg)

Zooming in closer. We are also seeing Bitcoin itself losing its dominance over
the last 5 years. This is a sign of the markets starting to mature as a fully
digital economy should not be 95% money. All industries will eventually fill
this economy when this fully matures. (Data by Coinmarketcap)

![18-top-125-coins](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-
invest/18-top-125-coins.jpg)

Let’s look at the individual performance of the other coins. This is a chart
of the top 125 coins by network value. As you can see there are plenty of
investment opportunities that can outperform Bitcoin. (Bitcoin can be seen as
the longest and oldest price line above).

![19-total-market](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-
invest/19-total-market.jpg)

That last slide was the top 125 outliers, this chart shows essentially the
entire market. The darker colours moving to lighter represent the top 200,
400, 600 etc.

Newer coins are outperforming older coins in general. Also buying the entire
market tends to be neutral in performance.

Selection and filtering is key.

I suggest selecting just as a Venture Capitalist would. Vet the team, call
them up, are they competent? Check their tech, read their source code, is the
tech stack useful? How big can the market grow to? What are the token
dynamics, is the token designed for high velocity or low?

![20-falcon9-trajectory](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-
invest/20-falcon9-trajectory.jpg)

Successful projects will follow what I call the Falcon 9 launch trajectory.

Ride the early steep trajectory for 2-3 years, then roll the investment into
new projects capable of climbing steeply. It’s a venture capital model.
Returns that Bitcoin offered in 2011-2013 are still available today, but
there’s work involve to find the gems.

Thank you, and happy investing for 2018. Much of my research is published on
my blog at Woobull.com and most recent research on Twitter at
[@woonomic](https://twitter.com/woonomic).

* * *

## Photos

via [@ibrightly](https://twitter.com/ibrightly/status/935626125556027392)  
![](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-invest/0-stage-1.jpg)

via
[@jon_e_wheeler](https://twitter.com/jon_e_wheeler/status/937209770334916608)  
![](http://images.woobull.com/2017-12-03-concensus-invest/0-stage-2.jpg)

## Sign up for more like this.

Enter your email Subscribe

[

## Supply Shock, predicting price by quantifying intent to buy and sell

IntroductionIn any market, price is driven by demand and supply. This is a
fundamental. The most obvious way of seeing this is in the bid and asks
between buyers and sellers. A more nuanced way would be to wave a magic wand
and gauge the intent of investors before the

](/quantifying-supply-shock/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Aug 10, 2021 • 4 min read

[

## The two types of Altcoins, an investor's view

This is a thread on altcoins, first published on Twitter. Altcoins are
nuanced. We have: Protocol coinsUtility tokensSecurity tokensNon-fungible
tokensBut to an investor, there's only 2 types. Oscillators and Degenerators.
You can spot them on this chart of the entire market. The vast majority of
alt-coins are Degenerators. Their price

](/the-two-types-of-altcoins-an-investors-view/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Nov 7, 2019 • 2 min read

[

## Introducing the Difficulty Ribbon, signaling the best times to buy Bitcoin

Introducing the Bitcoin Difficulty Ribbon. When the ribbon compresses, or
flips negative, these are the best times to buy Bitcoin. The ribbon consists
of simple moving averages on mining difficulty so we can easily see the rate
of change in difficulty. How it the Difficulty Ribbon worksThis visualisation
of network

](/introducing-the-difficulty-ribbon-the-best-times-to-buy-bitcoin/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Aug 1, 2019 • 2 min read

[Woobull](https://woobull.com) (C) 2022

[Powered by Ghost](https://ghost.org/)

