[](https://medium.com/)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/de097b80a27e&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](https://medium.com/)

[Home](https://medium.com/)

[Notifications](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![FTX
TWIST](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*EOoO7vW8ajWaWG7G63edtg.png)](https://blog.blockfolio.com/?source=post_page
-----de097b80a27e--------------------------------)

Published in

[FTX TWIST

](https://blog.blockfolio.com/?source=post_page-----
de097b80a27e--------------------------------)

[![Blockfolio](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/0*ub5qaAbI3JLG97cS.png)](https://blockfolio.medium.com/?source=post_page
-----de097b80a27e--------------------------------)

[Blockfolio](https://blockfolio.medium.com/?source=post_page-----
de097b80a27e--------------------------------)

[Follow](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fsubscribe%2Fuser%2F1de88e7fa3dd&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.blockfolio.com%2Fthe-
indisputable-unquestionable-most-interesting-and-relevant-crypto-tax-content-
on-the-internet-
de097b80a27e&user=Blockfolio&userId=1de88e7fa3dd&source=post_page-1de88e7fa3dd
----de097b80a27e---------------------follow_byline-----------)

Mar 27, 2020

·

6 min read

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fbookmark%2Fp%2Fde097b80a27e&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.blockfolio.com%2Fthe-
indisputable-unquestionable-most-interesting-and-relevant-crypto-tax-content-
on-the-internet-
de097b80a27e&source=--------------------------bookmark_header-----------)

[

Save

](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fbookmark%2Fp%2Fde097b80a27e&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.blockfolio.com%2Fthe-
indisputable-unquestionable-most-interesting-and-relevant-crypto-tax-content-
on-the-internet-
de097b80a27e&source=--------------------------bookmark_header-----------)

#  **The Indisputable, Unquestionable Most Interesting And Relevant Crypto Tax
Content On The Internet**

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*WbwtR0Ezad4AUlz8hO0mig.jpeg)

Photo by [The New York Public
Library](https://unsplash.com/@nypl?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)
on
[Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/s/photos/taxes?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)

It’s everyone’s favorite time of year: tax time!

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/320/0*aThPRKhegwk543bS)

Now, this year, due to the circumstance of COVID-19, Federal Tax Day in the US
has moved from April to July (although many states haven’t changed their
deadlines).

Unfortunately, while more time is a great boon for those impact, it doesn’t
make actually getting your taxes done any less painful.

That is especially true for crypto HODLers and traders, for whom
cryptocurrencies have added entirely new categories of complication.

Still, as each year passes, the information, tools and services around crypto
taxes get better and better. At Blockfolio, we’ve been continuously impressed
with our partners at TokenTax. Not only is their automated software top
knotch; they get that every person is different, with complicated, unique
issues, and make sure to have the actual qualified experts standing by to
help.

Our first recommendation then is this: just go let them help you. Seriously.
They’re the best at this. If you have data in Blockfolio, even easier — just
import it and go.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1000/0*CRMQ_ZZJr1hDZ5yP)

At the same time though, we know all you crypto brains are independent, think
for yourself types who want to learn everything. To help you on your journey
then, we present this curated list of the absolute undisputed most valuable
and interesting information on crypto taxes online.

Check it out, dive in, and then when you’ve waded through this complex morass
and are *actually* ready to get that introduction to TokenTax, come on back.
We’ll be waiting.

Without further ado, we present a curated set of resources. The best crypto
tax content on the internet, organized in convenient categories for your
perusal.

# Section 1 — Why do crypto taxes matter?

Get yourself situated with some multimedia that explains why crypto taxes
matter. These are for you listeners out there.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*leJ4P0g-NSdG-fyE.jpeg)

[ **[Podcast] What Grinds My Gears — Episode 26: Death &
Taxes**](https://medium.com/what-grinds-my-gears/episode-26-death-and-
taxes-e78711122738)

Let’s be real, you’re probably not going to make it through everything in this
post. So if you just want a high-level frame setting that introduces key
issues around crypto taxes and puts them in the market context, check out this
podcast with Meltem Demirors and Jill Carlson, which looks not only at crypto
taxes but the history of tax regimes. A really fun way to kick off this
journey.

#  **Section 2 — 101: Crypto Tax Primers**

[ **An 8-Part Complete Starter Guide To Crypto
Taxes**](https://tokentax.co/guides/how-cryptocurrency-taxes-work/) **  
**Seriously, this is the ultimate starter — from how taxes are calculated to
what transactions are taxable. Do yourself a favor and start here.

[ **The Complete Guide To Filing**](https://tokentax.co/guides/how-to-report-
cryptocurrency-on-taxes/) **  
**So you’ve read the above and you’re ready to think about actually filing?
This is the natural next step to the starter above.

[ **Crypto and Bitcoin Taxes In The US  
**](https://www.coinbase.com/bitcoin-taxes#welcome)Last year, CoinDesk put
together this comprehensive guide around crypto taxes. The multi-section piece
includes an outline of steps to take, resources around official IRS guidance,
a look at relevant forms, and even a glossary of key terms. It is written with
last year’s information in mind, but still provides a great starting point.

 ** _Two more short guides:_**

A couple more 101 resources for you:

  * Investopedia — Are There Taxes On Bitcoin? <https://www.investopedia.com/articles/investing/040515/are-there-taxes-bitcoins.asp>
  * CNNMoney — 4 things to know about your cryptocurrency at tax time <https://money.cnn.com/2018/03/26/pf/how-to-pay-taxes-on-cryptocurrency/index.html>

# **Section 3 — Tax Loss Harvesting**

We haven’t necessarily been in the best market for the last few years. In that
context, there has been some great content around tax loss harvesting and
crypto.

[ **The Complete Guide To Crypto Tax Loss Harvesting  
**](https://tokentax.co/guides/the-complete-guide-to-crypto-tax-loss-
harvesting/)Oh look, TokenTax has another big fat complete guide to this
specific issue. THIS IS WHY WE’RE TELLING YOU JUST WORK WITH THEM.

##  **Multimedia**

Are you more about the audio/visual learning? Here are some additional
resources

  * [[Video] Josh from Blockroots](https://twitter.com/Josh_Rager/status/1212169092175736833)
  * [[Podcast] PSA: Crypto Tax Loss Harvesting (Before The Next Bull Run) feat Zac McClure from TokenTax](https://blog.nomics.com/flippening/crypto-tax-loss-harvesting-zac-mcclure-tokentax/)

#  **Section 4 — 2020 Changes**

[ **5 Things To Know About Crypto Taxes For Your 2019 Tax
Return**](https://tokentax.co/blog/5-things-filing-crypto-taxes-2019/) **  
**Most of the 101’s above were written around the context of 2019’s tax
season, so what about this year? Never fear, our partners at TokenTax have you
covered with this list of 5 changes, including a new crypto question on the
1040 form, a new enforcement focus, a new position on forks and airdrops, and
more.

#  **Section 5 — DeFi and Taxes**

DeFi is one of the hottest areas of the crypto markets, but it brings with it
a slew of new questions as well.

[ **2019’s DeFi Boom Raises New Questions for Tax Filing Season  
**](https://www.coindesk.com/2019s-defi-boom-creates-new-questions-for-tax-
filing-season)The emergence of Decentralized Finance platforms or DeFi has
created a whole new set of questions for crypto users around taxes. Given that
there is over $785m locked in DeFi, this is a meaningful challenge. CoinDesk
digs into the state of DeFi and taxes in this recent piece.

[ **Defi Crypto Tax: How Taxes Work for Crypto Lending, Loans, and More  
**](https://tokentax.co/guides/defi-crypto-tax/)Are you getting sick of this
yet? This TokenTax always having EXACTLY the information you need about EVERY
TOPIC? No, we didn’t think so. Check out the community feedback to some of
their recently released DeFi tools as well.

  * [Compound Finance Importer](https://twitter.com/RyanSAdams/status/1214973189568290816)
  * [Uniswap Exchange tool](https://twitter.com/TokenTax/status/1217523968137142273)

#  **Section 6 — Unpacking Recent IRS Guidance**

[ **Update To The 1040 Scedule 1  
**](https://tokentax.co/blog/irs-crypto-1040-schedule-1/)The core form used by
the IRS has been updated, and will now ask the majority of taxpayers if
they’ve bought or sold any crypto.

[ **FAQ on Virtual Currency Transactions  
**](https://www.irs.gov/individuals/international-taxpayers/frequently-asked-
questions-on-virtual-currency-transactions)In October of last year, the IRS
provided its first updated guidance on crypto taxes in a number of years. The
pieces below provide analysis & community commentary on it, but start here
with the actual word from the source.

[ **CoinCenter: IRS Cryptocurrency guidance answers some questions while
raising messy new ones**](https://coincenter.org/entry/irs-cryptocurrency-
guidance-answers-some-questions-while-raising-messy-new-ones)  
This breakdown from CoinCenter identifies what was good about the IRS new
guidance from what was bad — highlighting in particular the issues with hard
forks. This, as we’ll see, has continued to create confusion and calls for
more clarification.

[ **US Lawmakers Ask IRS to Clarify Crypto Tax Rules Around Airdrops, Forks in
New Letter**](https://www.coindesk.com/us-lawmakers-ask-irs-to-clarify-crypto-
tax-rules-around-airdrops-forks-in-new-letter)  
Turns out, it wasn’t just Crypto Twitter that was confused by the IRS’ most
recent guidance. In December, a group of 8 Congressmen penned a letter asking
for more clarity on the issues of forks and airdrops as it relates to tax
burden.

# Section 7 — Current Advocacy

[ **Congress takes a step toward a de minimis exemption for everyday
cryptocurrency transactions**](https://coincenter.org/entry/congress-takes-a-
step-toward-a-de-minimis-exemption-for-everyday-cryptocurrency-transactions)  
One of the adoption challenges facing cryptocurrencies is that, under current
US law, any sale of crypto — such as a crypto debit card that sells a tiny bit
of your bitcoin when you go to buy coffee — creates a taxable event.
CoinCenter is again leading the charge with advocacy for a small daily
allowance that wouldn’t be subject to the same rules. The Virtual Currency Tax
Fairness Act of 2020 was introduced this January with bipartisan support.

#  **Section 8 — Crypto Taxes Around The World**

Crypto taxes aren’t just an issue in the US. Jurisdictions around the world
are working to get a clear perspective on the best way to tax crypto. Here are
just a few examples:

  * [Japan’s National Tax Agency Is Taking a Closer Look at Cryptocurrency](https://tokentax.co/blog/japan-a-closer-look-at-crypto/)
  * [South Korea Considers 20% Crypto Income Tax](https://www.coindesk.com/south-korea-considers-20-crypto-tax)
  * [New UK Guidelines](https://tokentax.co/blog/uk-new-crypto-tax-guidelines/)
  * [The 2020 Guide to Crypto Tax in Canada](https://tokentax.co/guides/the-2020-guide-to-crypto-tax-in-canada/)

Thanks toAlex Miles

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fvote%2Fblockfolio-
blog%2Fde097b80a27e&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.blockfolio.com%2Fthe-
indisputable-unquestionable-most-interesting-and-relevant-crypto-tax-content-
on-the-internet-
de097b80a27e&user=Blockfolio&userId=1de88e7fa3dd&source=-----de097b80a27e
---------------------clap_footer-----------)

\--

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fvote%2Fblockfolio-
blog%2Fde097b80a27e&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.blockfolio.com%2Fthe-
indisputable-unquestionable-most-interesting-and-relevant-crypto-tax-content-
on-the-internet-
de097b80a27e&user=Blockfolio&userId=1de88e7fa3dd&source=-----de097b80a27e
---------------------clap_footer-----------)

\--

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fvote%2Fblockfolio-
blog%2Fde097b80a27e&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.blockfolio.com%2Fthe-
indisputable-unquestionable-most-interesting-and-relevant-crypto-tax-content-
on-the-internet-
de097b80a27e&user=Blockfolio&userId=1de88e7fa3dd&source=-----de097b80a27e
---------------------clap_footer-----------)

\--

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fbookmark%2Fp%2Fde097b80a27e&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.blockfolio.com%2Fthe-
indisputable-unquestionable-most-interesting-and-relevant-crypto-tax-content-
on-the-internet-
de097b80a27e&source=--------------------------bookmark_footer-----------)

## [More from FTX TWIST](https://blog.blockfolio.com/?source=post_page-----
de097b80a27e--------------------------------)

[Follow](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fsubscribe%2Fcollection%2Fblockfolio-
blog%2Fde097b80a27e&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.blockfolio.com%2Fthe-
indisputable-unquestionable-most-interesting-and-relevant-crypto-tax-content-
on-the-internet-
de097b80a27e&collection=FTX+TWIST&collectionId=ca4452e70f6f&source=post_page
-----de097b80a27e---------------------follow_footer-----------)

Every week we comb through hundreds of FTX Signals to bring you the most
significant team updates with brief analyses to help you understand the latest
developments in blockchain.

[Read more from FTX TWIST](https://blog.blockfolio.com/?source=post_page-----
de097b80a27e--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Muon
Joel](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*UtENPmSb6cTRngTl5IRJPQ.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@joelgee?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Muon Joel

](https://medium.com/@joelgee?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

in

[Muon

](https://medium.com/muon?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Muon: A Superior Decentralized Oracle for Next-Generation Price Feeds

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*4JHZq4H6K5XEIuwN)](https://medium.com/muon/muon-
a-superior-decentralized-oracle-for-next-generation-price-
feeds-d6da9299f27f?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Kingsman
Ventures](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*09K1Uct35R0JoZmUEhnlqA.png)](https://kingsmanventures.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Kingsman Ventures

](https://kingsmanventures.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Solstarter | Whitelisting Guide

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*rFXdXyoYhT1fUTCcT1RanA.png)](https://kingsmanventures.medium.com/solstarter-
whitelisting-guide-c203927c1ac1?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![CoinBurp](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*l71YtrO0ZesJbJKnGOWqbw.png)](https://coinburp.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[CoinBurp

](https://coinburp.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Highest NFT Sales for July 2021

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*0Ok77WXLnARoKMHn)](https://coinburp.medium.com/top-
nft-sales-for-july-2021-ccbf970b12fa?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![DΞNI](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*71PS0_vJdN1YjYFC.)](https://deniskrinnikov.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[DΞNI

](https://deniskrinnikov.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## With Maiar everything is simple

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*dRoxGkS-
imfttCDC7GKVug.jpeg)](https://deniskrinnikov.medium.com/with-maiar-everything-
is-simple-a158c2a005e2?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![LABS
Group](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*K8NXL6qoWy0I_U6dWhCcdg.jpeg)](https://labsgroupio.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[LABS Group

](https://labsgroupio.medium.com/?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## MonopoLABS 2.0: Decide the Name for the first NFT resort! Choose a Resort
name and Win More $LABS!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*GINuXWF6MdiYkn7PHQNdKg.jpeg)](https://labsgroupio.medium.com/monopolabs-2-0-decide-
the-name-for-the-first-nft-resort-choose-a-resort-name-and-win-more-
labs-8a7c41033b7b?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![Dani
Amsalem](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*A76PUrXNKZ4SUeT8w_sSbA.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@daniamsalem?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Dani Amsalem

](https://medium.com/@daniamsalem?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[decryptionary

](https://medium.com/decryptionary?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## How I Bought My First Bitcoin

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*IZzzEFGAQo-
Wpor_uuYumA.png)](https://medium.com/decryptionary/how-i-bought-my-first-
cryptocurrency-4e3681a9e699?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Metamints](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*2RJb_b_LXm3gwtL5jIpqmQ.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@metamints1?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Metamints

](https://medium.com/@metamints1?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## The 10 Most Expensive NFT Sales of All Time

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*clcj1TuRPII0fb39.png)](https://medium.com/@metamints1/the-10-most-
expensive-nft-sales-of-all-time-9760b88a771?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[[![Web3Lunch](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*J6dFFvPKPIzBqriNsvteqg.png)](https://medium.com/@web3lunch?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Web3Lunch

](https://medium.com/@web3lunch?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## 👩‍🎤 Here is why Kevin O’Leary from Shark Tank is not a real degen!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*2OLdeEC_cf8KnSNG.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@web3lunch/here-
is-why-kevin-oleary-from-shark-tank-is-not-a-real-
degen-4e8a486b42d1?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](https://medium.com/?source=post_page-----
de097b80a27e--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
de097b80a27e--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
de097b80a27e--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
de097b80a27e--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
de097b80a27e--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----de097b80a27e--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----de097b80a27e--------------------------------)

[Get
started](https://medium.com/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.blockfolio.com%2Fthe-
indisputable-unquestionable-most-interesting-and-relevant-crypto-tax-content-
on-the-internet-de097b80a27e&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Blockfolio](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/0*ub5qaAbI3JLG97cS.png)](https://blockfolio.medium.com)

[

## Blockfolio

](https://blockfolio.medium.com)

641 Followers

The Bitcoin and Altcoin Portfolio App <http://telegram.blockfolio.com> . . .
<http://facebook.com/BlockfolioApp/> . . . <http://www.blockfolio.com> . . . .
. . . <http://blog.blockfolio.com>

[Follow](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fsubscribe%2Fuser%2F1de88e7fa3dd&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.blockfolio.com%2Fthe-
indisputable-unquestionable-most-interesting-and-relevant-crypto-tax-content-
on-the-internet-
de097b80a27e&user=Blockfolio&userId=1de88e7fa3dd&source=post_page-1de88e7fa3dd
-------------------------follow_profile-----------)

[](https://medium.com/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2Ff461467c8dfc&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.blockfolio.com%2Fthe-
indisputable-unquestionable-most-interesting-and-relevant-crypto-tax-content-
on-the-internet-
de097b80a27e&newsletterV3=1de88e7fa3dd&newsletterV3Id=f461467c8dfc&user=Blockfolio&userId=1de88e7fa3dd&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![CryptoTalk](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*cuQwouGUaYY_aOzRbUcJiQ.jpeg)](https://cryptotalker.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------1cf940b6_463f_4e04_95b4_82418df150e8-------)

[CryptoTalk

](https://cryptotalker.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------1cf940b6_463f_4e04_95b4_82418df150e8-------)

## Bitcoin and the Federal Funds Rate Explained

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*mLlcdV4-85kaX8N6vMbeGQ.jpeg)](https://cryptotalker.medium.com/bitcoin-
and-the-federal-funds-rate-explained-7ba16cf11e13?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------1cf940b6_463f_4e04_95b4_82418df150e8-------)

[[![Günter
Ederegger](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*YjiDVcUu0T-cKQIpRvdByw.jpeg)](https://ederegger360.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------1cf940b6_463f_4e04_95b4_82418df150e8-------)

[Günter Ederegger

](https://ederegger360.medium.com/?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------1cf940b6_463f_4e04_95b4_82418df150e8-------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------1cf940b6_463f_4e04_95b4_82418df150e8-------)

## 9 Different Cryptocurrencies You Can Now Donate To The Ukrainian Government

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*X_qNMJ6F6qYHFMraR3X8Jg.png)](https://medium.com/coinmonks/9-different-
cryptocurrencies-you-can-now-donate-to-the-ukrainian-
government-256e5e10dd52?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
1cf940b6_463f_4e04_95b4_82418df150e8-------)

[[![John Chaney](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Fqtee-zc-
goWT2CfeMrivw.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@johnchaney-
crypto?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
1cf940b6_463f_4e04_95b4_82418df150e8-------)

[John Chaney

](https://medium.com/@johnchaney-crypto?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------1cf940b6_463f_4e04_95b4_82418df150e8-------)

## What to Consider When Investing In Crypto

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*is_2OwgB6XyuiqvA.jpeg)](https://medium.com/@johnchaney-
crypto/what-to-consider-when-investing-in-
crypto-2aba1016a9e7?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
1cf940b6_463f_4e04_95b4_82418df150e8-------)

[[![Gaydaturki](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](https://medium.com/@gaydaturki?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------1cf940b6_463f_4e04_95b4_82418df150e8-------)

[Gaydaturki

](https://medium.com/@gaydaturki?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------1cf940b6_463f_4e04_95b4_82418df150e8-------)

## Five Things Your Competitors Know About Crypto.

](https://medium.com/@gaydaturki/five-things-your-competitors-know-about-
crypto-a9ad934d6e8f?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
1cf940b6_463f_4e04_95b4_82418df150e8-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](https://medium.com/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

