[![Colony
Blog](/content/images/2018/11/horizontal_white-1-1.png)](https://blog.colony.io)

  * [Blog](https://blog.colony.io/)
  * [Colony](https://colony.io)

[ ](https://twitter.com/joincolony "Twitter")

[ ](https://feedly.com/i/subscription/feed/https://blog.colony.io/rss/ "RSS")

18 May 2020 / [community](/tag/community/)

# The Crypto Network as City, and their Possibilities Beyond COVID

_The COVID crisis has forced us to change how we move, work, and communicate.
How might this push us to realize otherwise-overlooked possibilities of
association?_

In work, at home, and throughout the spaces in between, the COVID crisis is
forcing us to grapple with the impact of our own actions on the collective. As
the traditional nature of work and interpersonal association becomes
dangerous, we are forced to think about the adaptability of our cities,
companies, and networks.

Venture capitalist Ali Yahya’s string of
[tweet](https://twitter.com/ali01/status/956086982928564224?lang=en)s that “A
crypto network is more like a city than it is like a firm” speaks to the
striking similarities between cities and cryptonetworks. In a basic sense,
they are both bottom up entities founded on basic rules; the built-form of the
city, like the operating rules of a crypto network, make up the entity’s
“plane of immanence”; on that plane, individuals can freely form personal and
professional networks without the aid of regulating bodies.

Whether intentional or not, Yahya’s tweet tapped into a geographic debate
which goes back some forty years. In their ground-breaking book A Thousand
Plateaus, Gilles Deleuze and Felix Guatarri explained that systems can best be
defined as an “assemblage” of interchangeable parts existing and moving in
relation to each other.

Many geographers have embraced this framework to explain the diverse and
decentralized nature of cities. In his paper “Powerful Assemblages?”,
geographer John Allen explains that the city, should be viewed as a “powerful
arrangement that hangs together as an assorted heterogenous mix of power and
authority.” The city is porous, flexible, and malleable; it mirrors the web of
relations spun on it’s canvas.

##  **The City’s Digital Cousin**

If a city is an assemblage of entities and organizations, a crypto network is
its digital cousin. What is a crypto network if not an association of
individuals on a common plane? The decentralized nature of blockchain
technology makes it so that individuals can collaborate and create value
without the help of state governments and central banks; the rules of the game
are enforced through the plane itself. In[ collaborative work
platforms](https://blog.colony.io/truedao-d270a94877b1/) built on the
blockchain, such as Colony, we see this framework fleshed out. In the Colony
Network, a Metacolony ensures the functioning of the network. But individuals
are free to form their own “colonies'' in the same way as individuals in a
city start businesses, collaborate on projects, or form social groups without
planners or officials.

Just like a planner facilitates network-formation through transportation,
zoning, and development, the Metacolony ensures the smooth operation of the
network. But the Metacolony doesn’t run individual colonies any more than an
urban planner would decide whether a chef and an event space want to
collaborate on a pop-up; the planner’s role is simply to create the conditions
for such associations to happen.

It is telling that cities survive even when regimes are overthrown, explains
Yahya; “cities die when the last person leaves; crypto networks die when the
last individual stops running the protocol”. Both cities and crypto networks
are only as organic, cosmopolitan, and collaborative as the individuals that
shape their existence.

##  **COVID Co-ordination**

For evidence of decentralized networks’ potential, we need look no further
than our own neighbourhoods. In recent months, we have seen urban residents
collectively organize to aid individuals who are self-isolating or in need of
supplies. Density and numbers, key components of cities, are crucial in such
networks’ success.

Cities also make it easier to[ treat large
groups](https://www.citylab.com/life/2020/03/coronavirus-data-cities-rural-
areas-pandemic-health-risks/607783/) of people by eliminating the transport
costs associated with bringing individuals to treatment centres. Moreover,
herd immunity, the development of which (it is hoped) will end the crisis,
develops faster in cities; while cities might catalyse transmission, they may
also facilitate its demise.

Similarly, in a time where face-to-face meeting is dangerous, crypto networks
show great promise for organizing collective tasks without the need for
personal interaction; collaborators merely need common goals and a medium
through which to organize.

 **Democratizing Association**

More than anything, COVID has thrown us into new routines; those new routines
force us to rethink the spaces we inhabit, and how we interact in them. How
can we work together when we can’t be in spatial proximity? How can we form
friendships, networks, and connections without the organic opportunities that
cities present?

Stopping our routines has allowed us to reimagine how we move, work, and
socialise. This goes well beyond the scope of work, as concerts, lectures, and
[parties ](https://www.citylab.com/authors/feargus-osullivan/)move online (and
are recorded). Similarly, many city governments seem to be taking the
opportunity to make cities l[ess friendly towards private
cars](https://www.citylab.com/transportation/2020/04/coronavirus-reopen-
cities-public-transit-car-free-bike-milan/610360/), reclaiming the concrete
for pedestrians and cyclists; whether or not these changes stick, planners and
residents are [asking fundamental questions
](https://edition.cnn.com/style/article/cities-design-
coronavirus/index.html?utm_medium=social&utm_source=fbCNNi&utm_content=2020-05-10T10%3A31%3A46)about
how cities should operate. Whether we realise or not, we are lowering and
removing spatial, economic, and time-dependent barriers of accessibility.

More broadly, in a world where everyone is an outsider, might our
collaborations become more organic and accessible? In this sense, cities and
crypto networks are models of the new structures which our associations can
take. COVID, it seems, is merely pushing us to realise the potential beneath
our paving stones.

* * *

![](https://blog.colony.io/content/images/2020/02/horizontal_00284B-33-.png)

 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_Colony________________________________________________________________ is a
platform for community collaboration—do work, make decisions, and manage
money, together _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_.________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

 _Join the conversation on_[ _Discord_](https://clny.io/discord) _, follow us
on_[ _Twitter_](https://twitter.com/joincolony/) _, sign up for (occasional
and awesome)_[ _email updates_](https://colony.io/) _, or if you’re feeling
old-skool, drop us an_[ _email_](/cdn-cgi/l/email-
protection#731b161f1f1c33101c1f1c1d0a5d1a1c) _._

![Martin Francisco Saps](https://blog.colony.io/content/images/2020/05/Colony-
pic.jpeg)

#### [Martin Francisco Saps](/author/martin/)

Urban Planning student at the London School of Economics. Interested in the
world.

[Read More](/author/martin/)

-- Colony Blog --

### [community](/tag/community/)

  * [Colony 2020 and Beyond](/2020-and-beyond/)

[1 post →](/tag/community/) [ ](/2020-and-beyond/)

[ community

## Colony 2020 and Beyond

(an interview with co-founder Jack Du Rose) On March 25, 2020 I had the
pleasure of interviewing Colony co-founder, Jack du Rose. We ended up having a
delightfully broad-reaching discussion, covering: The history

](/2020-and-beyond/)

  * Corey Morrow 

[![Corey
Morrow](https://blog.colony.io/content/images/2020/05/1.png)](/author/corey/)

13 min read

[ ](/untitled/)

[

## How LeapDAO integrated Colony reputation with Holacracy and bounties

This article was first published on LeapDAO's blog. How we work LeapDAO is a
distributed team and strives to be truly decentralized. As a developer
cooperative LeapDAO uses the holacracy governance model to

](/untitled/)

  * Keno Budde 

[ ](/author/keno/)

4 min read

[ ![Colony Blog icon](/content/images/2018/11/logomark_color-2.png) Colony
Blog ](https://blog.colony.io)

--

The Crypto Network as City, and their Possibilities Beyond COVID

Share this

[
](https://twitter.com/share?text=The%20Crypto%20Network%20as%20City%2C%20and%20their%20Possibilities%20Beyond%20COVID&url=https://blog.colony.io/the-
crypto-network-as-city-and-their-possibilities-beyond-covid/)

[Colony Blog](https://blog.colony.io) (C) 2022 [Latest
Posts](https://blog.colony.io) [Twitter](https://twitter.com/joincolony)
[Ghost](https://ghost.org)

![Ghostboard
pixel](https://ghostboard.io/api/noscript/605e1f5f268aa214c195a5e3/pixel.gif)

