[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![The First Three Weeks: Highlights & Interesting
Developments](/static/bcced802e38b88d7793e4eb3b2e3971d/2a43b/Spacelapse.jpg)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

## The First Three Weeks: Highlights & Interesting Developments

By [Mihai Alisie](/blog/author/mihai-alisie/)

·

May 26, 2016

Many things have happened since we unveiled [AKASHA](https://akasha.world/).
On May 3rd, the [announcement
blogpost](https://blog.akasha.world/2016/05/03/unveiling-akasha/) received a
warm welcome and was the most upvoted thread on
[/r/ethereum](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/4hm678/unveiling_akasha_a_nextgeneration_social_media/)
and
[/r/ethtrader](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethtrader/comments/4hm6kk/unveiling_akasha_a_nextgeneration_social_media/),
which are the biggest Ethereum Reddit communities. The feedback was
overwhelmingly positive across the community, leading to over **200 signups**
for the alpha release in the first 24 hours.

[ ![200 Signups
Tweet](/static/35dc1e91872edabab591c66749c9205c/1c72d/24h-tweet.jpg)
](/static/35dc1e91872edabab591c66749c9205c/00d7d/24h-tweet.jpg)

Following the initial splash, we received a good deal of news coverage from
various publications in the blockchain space, but the best was yet to come, as
a few days later, we hit the front page of hackernews. Before the [hackernews
post](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=11678810), we were at almost 1000
signups already, but thanks to the increased exposure, we are nearing, at the
time of writing, almost **2000 signups**.

[ ![Hackernews
Frontpage](/static/431e89ea608d4b56085c8ac95e1f5931/1c72d/hackernews-
frontpage2.jpg) ](/static/431e89ea608d4b56085c8ac95e1f5931/6d3de/hackernews-
frontpage2.jpg)

[ ![Hackernews
Tweet](/static/14ddcb85b33d2e811caf1375932a1bf3/1c72d/hackernews-tweet.jpg)
](/static/14ddcb85b33d2e811caf1375932a1bf3/945ae/hackernews-tweet.jpg)

We are both ecstatic and humbled by the warm response, as it is **way beyond**
our wildest expectations. Many thanks, again, to everyone with the courage to
join us in this adventure into the ether.

At the other side of the Ethereum ecosystem, around the same time as our
unveiling, our friends from Ethereum Foundation and ConsenSys made a big
announcement as well - the launch of [BTC Relay](http://btcrelay.org/) on the
main Ethereum network.

This is a **big deal** and ties in with what [Rune
Christensen](https://twitter.com/RuneKek), founder of the
[Maker](https://makerdao.com/) project, explained a while ago. One of the best
things Ethereum offers, by default, is the incredible synergy that all dapps
living on the network can benefit from.

[ ![BTCrelay.org](/static/9c1c54610fbcdb7c972a68deeb0237fd/1c72d/BTCrelay-
website.jpg) ](/static/9c1c54610fbcdb7c972a68deeb0237fd/4d3af/BTCrelay-
website.jpg)

[ ![BTCrelay Tweet](/static/479363647d89b32aba511fb92024c5fb/1c72d/thanks-
BTCrelay-tweet.jpg) ](/static/479363647d89b32aba511fb92024c5fb/45d84/thanks-
BTCrelay-tweet.jpg)

In our case, BTC Relay makes possible, at least in theory, the support of both
Ether and Bitcoin as native tokens in our beta, hopefully, in the process,
bridging the gap formed between these two amazing crypto communities.

In the middle of all this craziness, we had a call with [Juan
Benet](https://twitter.com/juanbenet) and the friendly [IPFS
team](http://ipn.io/), regarding our roadmaps for the future, trying to find
the best way to collaborate with the [IPFS project](https://ipfs.io/).

[ ![Thank You IPFS](/static/aeeccdf00528b4a8ac43982e29cd6219/1c72d/thanks-
ipfs-tweet.jpg) ](/static/aeeccdf00528b4a8ac43982e29cd6219/09fd1/thanks-ipfs-
tweet.jpg)

We agreed to help with the Electron IPFS tests, since we’re already using
[Electron](https://electron.atom.io/) as part of our tech stack. We then
covered some of the pain points encountered in IPFS development; one of them
was getting the IPFS API to work on Windows.

In our case, this is important, as our alpha signup list revealed (not to
anyone’s surprise really) there are **many** Windows users out there. This is
why, after a few days of intense research and development, Marius came up with
a way to make the IPFS executable download seamlessly on multiple platforms
and architectures, Windows included. Hooray for Windows users!

The solution was received with enthusiasm by our friends from IPFS, and they
will use a similar approach to deliver the right IPFS binaries across multiple
platforms soon :)

[ ![IPFS API Windows](/static/9cb4426156a21ea94c8a8862b3a32739/1c72d/ipfs-
wrapper-issue.jpg) ](/static/9cb4426156a21ea94c8a8862b3a32739/aa597/ipfs-
wrapper-issue.jpg)

During this call, we also talked with [Samuli
Pöyhtäri](https://twitter.com/haadcode), the creator of the awesome IPFS based
database [Orbit-DB](https://github.com/haadcode/orbit-db). We’ve been eyeing
Orbit-DB for a while, as we researched a number of options for solving the
client-side storage problem - from SQL to Level DB, from RethinkDB to
BigChainDB, and beyond.

Samuli was helpful and offered answers that sounded like music to our ears. We
are now working together on some cool and exciting things, but we’ll cover
that in more detail in the next section.

Later in the week, we received a special visit in our Bucharest hacklab from
[Dr. Gavin Wood](https://twitter.com/gavofyork) and [Marek
Kotewicz](https://twitter.com/iDebris5) from [Ethcore](https://ethcore.io/).
We haven’t seen each other since before the [Ethereum
Genesis](http://etherscan.io/block/0), and we had a great time catching up.

[ ![Ethcore In The
House](/static/63b89f7238031f58fca18b7fe3811412/1c72d/ethcore-visit.jpg)
](/static/63b89f7238031f58fca18b7fe3811412/824f2/ethcore-visit.jpg)

During the visit, we talked about the challenges we face on the Ethereum side
of things, followed by a demonstration of what
[Parity](https://github.com/ethcore/parity) can do. At the moment, we are
using the [Go-Ethereum](https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum)
implementation (Geth); however, Parity looks very interesting, especially for
blockchain size and sync time.

Gav and Marek, later, shared with us some of their plans, in the process,
exploring ways we can collaborate. After the discussions, one thing is sure -
we’ll continue to experiment with Parity as it matures and see if/when it
makes sense to switch from Geth.

[ ![Gav In The Mix](/static/1459d547d052077465178a833efdab56/1c72d/ethcore-
brainstorming.jpg) ](/static/1459d547d052077465178a833efdab56/a2510/ethcore-
brainstorming.jpg)

The discussions later converged into a brainstorming on the smart contracts
architecture, the session resulting in some interesting insights into how
things could be improved. For example, we discussed how being a good
blockchain citizen comes with rewards in the form of recovered gas when
cleaning up the old deployed contracts via the `suicide` function.

All this being said, I would like to recap by giving **kudos** to Joseph Chow
and the ConsenSys team for making BTC Relay happen, a **big thank you** goes
to the IPFS/Orbit-DB team for being so awesome and willing to collaborate, and
**special thanks** go to the ethcore team for their visit and all the
invaluable knowledge shared.

I’m convinced we can - and we will - build epic things together.

### (Very) Interesting Developments

> “Creating a better future requires creativity in the present.” ― Matthew
> Goldfinger

[ ![IPFS FTW](/static/e4cfa06ae4ac08acfdd1b0a138aa5ff0/1c72d/IPFS-
background.jpg) ](/static/e4cfa06ae4ac08acfdd1b0a138aa5ff0/72e01/IPFS-
background.jpg)

At the beginning of this entry, we started to collaborate more closely with
the guys from IPFS and Orbit-DB. This led to an experiment, which we think
might benefit both the Ethereum and IPFS ecosystems.

[Orbit-DB](https://github.com/haadcode/orbit-db) is one of the most
interesting databases explored, while looking into ways to solve the problem
of client-side storage for our dapp. However, Orbit-DB uses a
[redis](http://redis.io/) server to notify nodes when a new hash appears on
the network and needs to be synced locally, as an intermediary solution, until
IPFS implements a [pub-sub schema](https://github.com/ipfs/go-ipfs/pull/2599)
at protocol level.

We weren’t happy with this solution, as it would introduce a [single point of
failure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_point_of_failure) in our dapp
architecture, so we had to take a break and think it through.

While thinking if we should still go forward with Orbit-DB, considering the
above, an idea sparked inside the AKASHA hacklab, during a conversation
between Marius and Sever - _“what if instead of redis we use smart contracts
for emitting events?”_

This is how, by combining IPFS, Orbit-DB, and Ethereum smart contract events,
we may have created what seems to be the “missing link” between IPFS and
Ethereum.

And this opens the path to many interesting things that weren’t possible
before.

In our case, Orbit-DB morphed into a decentralized client-side
storage/database for fast access to followed sources, with custom indexes,
without the smart contract limitations, while allowing queriable contract
events/logs.

It might help to imagine these Orbit-DB instances as localized spheres of
cached data from the main Ethereum network for fast and customizable access.

Within the AKASHA dapp, Orbit-DB would work like a local cache of the smart
contract events, which helps us speed the access to information stored on the
Ethereum network, with the added bonus of read-only **offline** access, which
comes in handy when no Internet connection is available.

On this note, people asked, in various channels, if we are planning to use
[Swarm](http://swarm-gateways.net/bzz:/swarm/ethersphere/orange-
papers/2/smash.pdf) and how we see things moving forward, once Swarm is
launched.

We know that some of the things we are trying to accomplish with this
experiment might work better on Swarm (when launched), as it works on top of
Ethereum, by default. But we wanted to have something working **now** , and
IPFS is an awesome technology, which is live **right now**.

Moreover, IPFS/Orbit-DB has a great team that will collaborate and experiment
with these new things. This was enough for us to put in the time to experiment
and make it happen.

When Swarm will be live, we will definitely experiment with it to see how it
fits with our needs, and depending on our findings, we will make a decision to
see which one is best for our dapp. In the meantime, we will continue to work
on this, as it allows us to push forward with AKASHA, as a fully functional
decentralized application.

More details, regarding this experiment, will follow in another blogpost soon,
as it is an interesting topic that deserves an entry of its own.

### Final Thoughts

> “Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed, citizens can
> change the world. Indeed, it is the only thing that ever has.” ― Margaret
> Mead

[ ![Keep your coins, I want
change](/static/a76a26ff48c4c06c27853868f4055c4d/1c72d/Banksy-change.jpg)
](/static/a76a26ff48c4c06c27853868f4055c4d/38f6f/Banksy-change.jpg)

Looking back to the past three weeks, it feels both exciting and reassuring to
see we are not alone in this. The general feeling we got is that users and
developers from around the world have been waiting for something, like AKASHA,
to appear.

We are blown away by the positive response, and we are doing our best to get
an alpha version in your hands soon. Now, as with every software project, it
is difficult to give an exact ETA, so please bear with us as we are
approaching the finish line.

With all that in mind, it’s good to remember, occasionally, that
**everything** , starting from the decentralized
[architecture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BitTorrent) to the [Ethereum
chain](https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/White-Paper) to
[IPFS](https://github.com/ipfs/papers) and going all the way through **every
piece** of our tech stack, **is a great experiment** , as we’re [standing on
the shoulders of ever-growing
giants](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standing_on_the_shoulders_of_giants),
accelerating in their growth.

In a way, it could be said that we are crafting a new ethereal canvas and the
tools to freely express yourself on this new medium. However, be prepared -
unexpected errors and hidden bugs are expected to be revealed through your
activity. So when you’ll stumble upon things like this, smile and remember
that you’re experiencing the bleeding edge of what can be achieved with
_highly experimental technologies_.

If you have signed up for the alpha, when the time comes, you will receive an
invitation and instructions on how to get started. If everything goes
according to plan, you will soon have, at your fingertips, something that can
really make a positive difference on a global scale.

The alpha release will most likely not be _perfect_ , but every great journey
must begin with a first step. As long as we all recognize **why** we need to
take this step together, we can get over whatever will come in our way.

So, in a few weeks from now, when you write your first entry on AKASHA,
remember you are writing history, while helping us, at the same time, to build
a better channel of expression for you and everyone else.

Thank you for being part of this!

[News](/blog/category/news/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2016/05/26/update-
highlights-and-interesting-developments)

