[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Thick Clients, No Servers aka Web3

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Thick Clients, No Servers aka Web3

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

February 2020

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

In last week's “[Thick Clients, Thin
Servers](https://outlierventures.io/thick-clients-thin-servers-aka-web3/)”
piece, the actual role of distributed ledgers wasn't covered in enough depth.
This sentence was thrown in at the end:

> _“All the digital tools being built today, including **blockchains** , are a
> part of this computing shift. Blockchains with a shared state can give web
> services persistence across the Web like cookies but without the abuses of
> privacy.”_

The core thrust of the piece was that the computing industry goes through
cycles between thick and thin servers and clients. In some eras the core
(server) is the dominant innovation platform such as the 60s with the
mainframe and the 10s with The Cloud. At other times, the edge (client) is
more important such as the 90s with the PC. If Web3 is the next phase in
computing, it will reduce the importance of the server and increase the
importance of the edge devices. In that piece, we didn't take the next logical
leap. Blockchains are a peer-to-peer technology, not the first one by any
stretch, but arguably the Bitcoin network is the first technically and
economically sustainable P2P service. So Web3 is a break with the past. It
isn’t a continuation of the client-server model, but the beginning of a new
peer-to-peer model. It’s not so much “Thick Clients, Thin Servers” rather
“Thick Clients, No Servers”.

But let’s back up, to get to that conclusion, we need to address a few
assumptions.

We know we are nearing the end of the smartphone curve of adoption with 4
billion people having one. We also know that the smartphone follows a
predictable pattern of a new computing platform every 15 years or so: the
mainframe, the PC, the Web, the smartphone. The smartphone era began with the
iPhone in 2007, so if the pattern continues, we should be able to start to
piece together the elements of the new computing platform whatever we decide
to call it.

For years, it has been reasonably clear that blockchain technology will play *
**some** * role in the future computing infrastructure. The debate is one of
size. The tech might end up just advancing the field of cryptography and
distributed systems, but not resulting in any useful applications. It might
support the Bitcoin network and provide a digital store of value. Or go even
further and underpin a new global payment network. It might underpin new peer-
to-peer applications, including things like self-sovereign identity. But
fundamentally, blockchain technologies contains unique and valuable
characteristics such as the ability to share state and logic providing
persistence that is useful for some applications today, and potentially a lot
more applications tomorrow.

The use of blockchain technology assumes future engineering improvements.
Protocols will get faster and easier to use for developers. Applications will
get faster, cheaper and easier to use. Innovations in cryptography like zero-
knowledge will filter through the industry. Distributed system innovations
like novel consensus algorithms will be tested at scale. New business models
like staking and continuous organisations will be deployed. It will be trivial
to build services using peer-to-peer infrastructure instead of client-server
infrastructure.

The “Thick Clients, No Servers” concept can be broken down into 6 assumptions:

  1. The smartphone era is coming to an end as innovation slows down
  2. A new era will begin which will shift the centre of innovation from the smartphone to “Web3/Untitled New Era”
  3. Blockchain technology will play some role at the very least kickstarting innovation in cryptography, distributed systems and peer-to-peer designs
  4. Blockchain technology proves p2p services can technically and economically scale
  5. More P2P infrastructure and services will be built, scale and compete with previous era services
  6. Client-server (Web/Smartphone Era) and P2P (Web3/Untitled New Era) infrastructure and services will co-exist until P2P outcompetes previous era services because they are cheaper, more convenient and empower individuals rather than enriching server-side monopolies

So we need to address each of these assumptions in turn. Especially assumption
4. We will continue to explore what comes after the smartphone era and the
role of blockchains and peer-to-peer systems in the coming weeks.

Posted by Lawrence Lundy - February 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

February 2020

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

