[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![Thoughts From The Machine Room: Ethereum Gas Price, Dapps &
Adoption](/static/06fc301216ab8f6c962dd24eca3c4ffa/2a43b/Ethereum-Gas-
AKASHA.jpg)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

## Thoughts From The Machine Room: Ethereum Gas Price, Dapps & Adoption

By [Mihai Alisie](/blog/author/mihai-alisie/)

·

June 03, 2016

We are now over three months into
[Homestead](https://blog.ethereum.org/2016/02/29/homestead-release/), and it
has been an intense ride as we've seen increased mainstream media attention,
massive [ETH price increases](http://ethereumprice.org/), and witnessed the
birth of "[The DAO](https://daohub.org/)" as the [largest crowdfunded
project](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_highest_funded_crowdfunding_projects)
**ever**.

All these are reasons to celebrate and be grateful that we are lucky enough to
participate in something so epic. Many people, myself included, were not
expecting things to move quite so quickly.

The mind blowing part is that things don't appear to be slowing down at all -
on the contrary, the rhythm seems to be accelerating.

With all these exciting things happening in such a short while, it's easy to
get lost in this rush and forget **why we started doing this thing** in the
first place. So, let's take a few moments to look back and think about why we
started this, where we are, and where we want to go as the only way to shape
our future is by taking control of the present.

### The Rise of Ethereum & Ether: The Side Effects of Success

> _" Success is not final, failure is not fatal: it is the courage to continue
> that counts." \-- Winston S. Churchill_

Ethereum made the concepts of decentralized applications and organizations
possible by introducing ETH as a "cryptofuel", which can be used to pay the
"gas" used for computation on its turing-complete blockchain.

This is how Ethereum was described as a "platform for decentralized
applications", a "blockchain apps platform" or, more recently, a "shared world
computer". These descriptions differentiated it from the sea of "altcoins"
that was floating around the blockchain space and made it easier for people to
understand that Ethereum is "more than an altcoin", in the sense you can build
cool things both with and on it.

This paradigm shift sparked the imagination of developers worldwide and even
attracted the attention of established institutions and corporations from
multi-national banks to international corporations.

However, in a paradoxical way, the recent wave of positive news and events
that brought along the ETH price increase also boosted the costs of running
these groundbreaking decentralized applications and organizations.

Before continuing, for those that haven't yet wrapped their heads around the
concept of "Ethereum gas", I highly recommend watching this presentation,
given by Joseph Chow:

The side effect of ETH price increase is negligible when talking about basic
things such as sending ETH from one account to another since the equivalent in
USD would be around ~$0.007, at the current prices, for ~21K gas to cover the
transaction.

The problem becomes more visible when we look at how this affects
decentralized applications and organizations. If we take "the DAO" as an
example, something as simple as transferring DAO tokens from one address to
another or casting a vote can reach fees between $0.05 - $0.1 to cover the
computation gas.

We learned of this problem as we were experimenting with an identity system
for AKASHA where each profile had its own smart contract. We touched upon this
ID system [a while
ago](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/4hm678/unveiling_akasha_a_nextgeneration_social_media/d2qyuhx),
but briefly, this approach comes with increased extensibility at the cost of
complexity. Our tests with this method revealed fees as high as ~$0.16 for
~500K gas used for deploying your own smart contract profile.

We were expecting higher costs with this approach and there are probably
places where we can optimize the gas usage, but this is beside the point of
this article. Instead, **let 's focus on the bigger picture as a community**.
We will cover the nitty, gritty, smart contract details in another post.

Here is an overview of the Ethereum market cap/Ether price evolution, courtesy
of [coincap](http://coincap.io/):

[ ![Ether Price Evolution](/static/0165b29fb4ccd6299a8a0e223c80a1c1/1c72d/ETH-
Price.jpg) ](/static/0165b29fb4ccd6299a8a0e223c80a1c1/f5df4/ETH-Price.jpg)

Next is an overview the Ethereum gas price evolution during the past few
months:

[ ![Ethereum Gas Price
Evolution](/static/dc795f72a1aec121c39aa582dbbaf041/1c72d/Gas-Price.jpg)
](/static/dc795f72a1aec121c39aa582dbbaf041/3d027/Gas-Price.jpg)

You can clearly observe in the next chart how the gas price adjustment
introduced with the homestead release impacted the gas price across the
network:

[ ![Ethereum Gas Price Since
Homestead](/static/681a950f44467d1a784e3cfb902b4651/1c72d/Gas-Price-
Homstead.jpg) ](/static/681a950f44467d1a784e3cfb902b4651/86433/Gas-Price-
Homstead.jpg)

The graph above also shows how the gas price has not changed, even if the
price per ETH more than doubled.

### The Bigger Picture

> _" Efforts and courage are not enough without purpose and direction." \--
> John F. Kennedy_

[ ![Ethereum World](/static/18989a757171ec865f8bf8a920561cab/1c72d/Ethereum-
AKASHA-Project.jpg) ](/static/18989a757171ec865f8bf8a920561cab/0f98f/Ethereum-
AKASHA-Project.jpg)

Homestead brought with it the first gas price adjustment and to a certain
extent, the issue we're facing now related to the ETH/Gas price increase was
to be expected, as [pointed out by Vitalik in the last discussion on this
topic](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/499a7w/gas_prices_are_already_kinda_down_to_20_shannon/).

Today, the ETH price is more than double compared to when the first gas price
adjustment was made, and we think another gas price adjustment is needed.
These high gas prices are harmful to the Ethereum ecosystem in the long run,
as they slow adoption down by making it too expensive to build and run things
on it.

Oversimplified, I think things look like this:

High Gas Price -> Less Dapps -> Less Adoption -> Smaller Ecosystem -> Smaller
Market Cap -> Everyone Loses (including the miners)

VS

Low Gas Price -> More Dapps -> More Adoption -> Bigger Ecosystem -> Bigger
Market Cap -> Everyone Wins (including the miners)

Maybe we are more aware of this problem as we are on the frontline of dapp
development with [AKASHA](https://akasha.world/). However, I'm sure everyone
would benefit from another gas price adjustment because this would lower the
entry barriers while increasing the chance of adoption at large scale -- and,
in the end, **adoption is critical for technologies like Ethereum**.

This is an open call for a new discussion on how we can deal with the problem
of gas prices now and how we can tackle this issue to keep the Ethereum World
Computer accessible to as many developers and users as possible.

**Ethereum was created to serve humanity, and it cannot fulfill its world-
changing destiny if it becomes too expensive to use.**

All this being said, one of the most amazing things Ethereum has, besides the
fantastic technology, is this great community united by a pure passion for
ideating, co-creating and iterating.

This is why, I'm sure we can fix this one as well, together.

[Join the community discussion
here](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/4mcebn/an_open_call_for_a_new_discussion_on_gas_prices/).

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2016/06/03/thoughts-
from-the-machine-room)

