#  [ Unenumerated ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/)

An unending variety of topics

## Wednesday, July 25, 2012

###  Three philosophical essays

From [Algorithmic Information Theory:
](http://szabo.best.vwh.net/kolmogorov.html)  
  
Charles Bennett has discovered an objective measurement for sophistication. An
example of sophistication is the structure of an airplane. We couldn't just
throw parts together into a vat, shake them up, and hope thereby to assemble a
flying airplane. A flying structure is vastly improbable; it is far
outnumbered by the wide variety of non-flying structures. The same would be
true if we tried to design a flying plane by throwing a bunch of part
templates down on a table and making a blueprint out of the resulting
overlays.  
  
On the other hand, an object can be considered superficial when it is not very
difficult to recreate another object to perform its function. For example, a
garbage pit can be created by a wide variety of random sequences of truckfulls
of garbage; it doesn't matter much in which order the trucks come.  
  
More examples of sophistication are provided by the highly evolved structures
of living things, such as wings, eyes, brains, and so on. These could not have
been thrown together by chance; they must be the result of an adaptive
algorithm such as Darwin's algorithm of variation and selection. If we lost
the genetic code for vertebrate eyes in a mass extinction, it would take
nature a vast number of animal lifetimes to re-evolve them. A sophisticated
structure has a high replacement cost.  
  
Bennett calls the computational replacement cost of an object its logical
depth. Loosely speaking, depth is the necessary number of steps in the causal
path linking an object with its plausible origin. Formally, it is the time
required by the universal Turing machine to compute an object from its
compressed original description.  
  
  
From [Objective versus Intersubjective
Truth](http://szabo.best.vwh.net/tradition.html):  
  
Post-Hayek and algorithmic information theory, we recognize that information-
bearing codes can be computed (and in particular, ideas evolved from the
interaction of people with each other over many lifetimes), which are  
  
(a) not feasibly rederivable from first principles,  
  
(b) not feasibly and accurately refutable  (given the existence of the code to
be refuted)  
  
(c) not even feasibly and accurately justifiable (given the existence of the
code to justify)  
  
("Feasibility" is a measure of cost, especially the costs of computation and
empircal experiment. "Not feasibly" means "cost not within the order of
magnitude of being economically efficient": for example, not solvable within a
single human lifetime. Usually the constraints are empirical rather than
merely computational).  
  
(a) and (b) are ubiqitous among highly evolved systems of interactions among
richly encoded entities (whether that information is genetic or memetic). (c)
is rarer, since many of these interpersonal games are likely no more diffult
than NP-complete: solutions cannot be feasibly derived from scratch, but known
solutions can be verified in feasible time. However, there are many problems,
especially empirical problems requiring a "medical trial" over one or more
full lifetimes, that don't even meet (c): it's infeasible to create a
scientifically repeatable experiment. For the same reason a scientific
experiment cannot refute _any_ tradition dealing with interpersonal problems
(b), because it may not have run over enough lifetimes, and we don't know
which computational or empirical class the interpersonal problem solved by the
tradition falls into. One can scientifically refute traditional claims of a
non-interpersonal nature, e.g. "God created the world in 4004 B.C.", but one
cannot accurately refute metaphorical interpretations or imperative statements
which apply to interpersonal relationships.  
  
As Dawkins has observed, death is vastly more probable than life. Cultural
parts randomly thrown together, or thrown together by some computationally
shallow line of reasoning, most likely result in a big mess rather than well
functioning relationships between people. The cultural beliefs which give rise
to civilization are, like the genes which specify an organism, a highly
improbable structure, surrounded in "meme space" primarily by structures which
are far more dysfunctional. Most small deviations, and practically all
"radical" deviations, result in the equivalent of death for the organism: a
mass breakdown of civilization which can include genocide, mass poverty,
starvation, plagues, and, perhaps most commonly and importantly, highly
unsatisying, painful, or self-destructive individual life choices.  
  
  
From [Hermeneutics: An Introduction to the Interpretation of Tradition:
](http://szabo.best.vwh.net/hermeneutics.html)  
  
Hermeneutics derives from the Greek _hermeneutika_ , "message analysis", or
"things for interpreting": the interpretation of tradition, the messages we
receive from the past... Natural law theorists are trying to do a Heideggerean
deconstruction when they try to find the original meaning and intent of the
documents deemed to express natural law, such as codifications of English
common law, the U.S. Bill of Rights, etc. For example, the question "would the
Founding Fathers have intended the 1st Amendment to cover cyberspace?" is a
paradigmatic hermeneutical question...[Hans-Georg] Gadamer saw the value of
his teacher [Martin] Heidegger's dynamic analysis, and put it in the service
of studying living traditions, that is to say traditions with useful
applications, such as the [law
](http://szabo.best.vwh.net/hermeneutics.html#law). Gadamer discussed the
classical as a broad normative concept denoting that which is the basis of a
liberal eduction. He discussed his historical process of _Behwahrung_ ,
cumulative preservation, that, through constantly improving itself, allows
something true to come into being. In the terms of [evolutionary
hermeneutics](http://szabo.best.vwh.net/hermeneutics.html#evo), it is used and
propagated because of its useful [application,
](http://szabo.best.vwh.net/hermeneutics.html#app)and its useful application
constitutes its truth. Gadamer also discusses value in terms of the duration
of a work's power to speak directly.  
  
  
  
  

Posted by  [ Nick Szabo ](https://www.blogger.com/profile/16820399856274245684
"author profile") at  [11:33
PM](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/three-philosophical-essays.html
"permanent link") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon18_email.gif)
](https://www.blogger.com/email-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=7359343972903109875 "Email Post") [
![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon18_edit_allbkg.gif)
](https://www.blogger.com/post-
edit.g?blogID=17908317&postID=7359343972903109875&from=pencil "Edit Post")

[Email This](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=7359343972903109875&target=email "Email
This")[BlogThis!](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=7359343972903109875&target=blog
"BlogThis!")[Share to Twitter](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=7359343972903109875&target=twitter "Share to
Twitter")[Share to Facebook](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=7359343972903109875&target=facebook "Share to
Facebook")[Share to Pinterest](https://www.blogger.com/share-
post.g?blogID=17908317&postID=7359343972903109875&target=pinterest "Share to
Pinterest")

#### 2 comments:

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

fortunato said...

    

What's a good starting point to learn more about Hayek?

     [ 12:24 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/three-philosophical-essays.html?showComment=1343417064160#c1326043669836496229 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=1326043669836496229 "Delete Comment")

![](//resources.blogblog.com/img/blank.gif)

nick said...

    

[The Use of Knowledge in
Society](http://emilyskarbek.com/uploads/The_Use_of_Knowledge_in_Society_-
_Hayek.pdf)

     [ 4:57 PM ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/three-philosophical-essays.html?showComment=1343433474861#c2884661205847699421 "comment permalink") [ ![](https://resources.blogblog.com/img/icon_delete13.gif) ](https://www.blogger.com/delete-comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=2884661205847699421 "Delete Comment")

[Post a
Comment](https://www.blogger.com/comment.g?blogID=17908317&postID=7359343972903109875)

[Newer Post](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/08/proxy-measures-sunk-
costs-and.html "Newer Post") [Older
Post](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/pascals-scams-ii.html "Older
Post") [Home](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/)

Subscribe to: [Post Comments
(Atom)](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/feeds/7359343972903109875/comments/default)

## Pages

  * [Home](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/)

## About Me

[ Nick Szabo ](https://www.blogger.com/profile/16820399856274245684)

    "A premier thinker about history, law and economics, and the lessons they have for security." -- Adam Shostack, [Emergent Chaos ](http://www.emergentchaos.com/archives/2005/12/nick_szabo_blog.html)   
  
"Szabo comes out with these essays that leave me in awe." -- [Brian
Dunbar](http://space4commerce.blogspot.com/2011/06/tab-clearing_14.html)  
  
"Reading material that is eclectic, challenging and endlessly fascinating."
\-- Sean McGrath,
[Propylon](http://seanmcgrath.blogspot.com/2004_05_09_seanmcgrath_archive.html)  
  
"Like most blogs worth my attention, this blog is updated only infrequently.
That is because the authors of blogs worth my attention only post when they
have something to say that is true, relevant and not already known by their
audience. Most of the human race does not have the skill to know when an idea
has these three properties. The skill is particularly rare in the fields of
politics and economics, which is why this blog is such a rare and valuable
thing." \-- [Richard Hollerith](http://dl4.jottit.com/)  
  

[View my complete
profile](https://www.blogger.com/profile/16820399856274245684)

## Blog Archive

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2018 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2018/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2018/03/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2017 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/03/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/02/) (2)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2016 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/03/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2016/02/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2015 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/10/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2015/05/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2014 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/10/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2014/07/) (1)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2013 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/11/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/08/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/07/) (1)

  * [ ▼ ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2012 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/) (8)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/10/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/08/) (2)
    * [ ▼ ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/) (4)
      * [Three philosophical essays](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/three-philosophical-essays.html)
      * [Pascal's scams (ii)](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/pascals-scams-ii.html)
      * [Pascal's scams](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/pascals-scams.html)
      * [More short takes](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2012/07/more-short-takes.html)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2011 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/) (12)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/06/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/05/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/02/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/01/) (4)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2010 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/) (9)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/10/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/09/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/02/) (2)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2009 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/) (29)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/11/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/10/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/09/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/08/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/07/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/06/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/05/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/04/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2009/01/) (3)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2008 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/) (55)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/12/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/10/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/09/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/08/) (9)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/07/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/06/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/05/) (6)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/04/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/03/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/02/) (5)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/01/) (3)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2007 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/) (47)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/12/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/10/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/09/) (8)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/08/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/07/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/06/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/05/) (8)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/04/) (1)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/03/) (2)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/02/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2007/01/) (3)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2006 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/) (130)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/12/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/11/) (7)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/10/) (15)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ September ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/09/) (15)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ August ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/08/) (20)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ July ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/07/) (5)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ June ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/06/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ May ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/05/) (4)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ April ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/04/) (3)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ March ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/03/) (11)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ February ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/02/) (10)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ January ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2006/01/) (26)

  * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ 2005 ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/) (44)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ December ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/12/) (16)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ November ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/11/) (5)
    * [ ► ](javascript:void\(0\)) [ October ](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2005/10/) (23)

|  
  
---|---  
  
Simple theme. Powered by [Blogger](https://www.blogger.com).

  *[11:33 PM]: 2012-07-25T23:33:00-07:00

