[ ![0xb10c logo](/0xb10c.png) ](/)

# 0xB10C

Bitcoin Developer

[Blog](/) [Mempool Observations](/mempool-observations) [Projects](/projects)
[Talks](/talks)

â˜€  requires JS

##  Timeline: Historical events in the development of Bitcoin

#####

Sunday, August 4, 2019

To fully understand the rationale behind the current state of Bitcoin
development, knowledge about historical events is essential. I created an
open-source project containing the data for a timeline of historical
developments in Bitcoin. Most data points are adopted from a talk [John
Newbery](https://twitter.com/jfnewbery) gave on the [History and Philosophy of
Bitcoin Development](https://www.meetup.com/BitDevsNYC/events/262321510/).
I've used this timeline in my blog post [The Incomplete History of Bitcoin
Development](/blog/004-the-incomplete-history-of-bitcoin-development/).

This timeline based on an open-source project called [bitcoin-development-
history](https://github.com/0xB10C/bitcoin-development-history). If you have a
suggestion about something missing or want to propose a change, please open an
issue there.

Enable JavaScript to view comments. Comments are privacy friendly and self-
hosted with [isso](https://posativ.org/isso/).

All text and images in this work are licensed under a [Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International
License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/) [![Creative Commons
License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-
sa/4.0/80x15.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)

#### Next

![Image for rawtx library](/data/projects/rawtx/header.png)
[](/projects/library-rawtx/)

* * *

September 28, 2019

#### rawtx library

The rawtx Golang module helps you (and me) to answer questions about raw
Bitcoin transactions, their inputs, outputs, and scripts. I use the rawtx
package for example in my [Bitcoin Transaction Monitor](/projects/bitcoin-
transaction-monitor/) and [transactionfee.info](/projects/transactionfee-
info-2020-version/) projects.

[](/projects/library-rawtx/)

#### Previous

![Image for mempool.observer \(2019 version\)](/data/projects/mempool-
observer/header.png) [](/projects/mempool-observer-2019-version/)

* * *

June 1, 2019

#### mempool.observer (2019 version)

The [mempool.observer](https://mempool.observer) website displays
visualizations about my Bitcoin mempool. For example, a visualization of my
current mempool and the historical mempool of my node is shown. The idea is to
provide information about the current mempool state to a Bitcoin user with a
seemingly stuck and longtime-unconfirmed transaction. Additionally, the site
can be used for double-checking feerate estimates before sending a
transaction.

[](/projects/mempool-observer-2019-version/)

[ ![logo stackexchange](/img/footer/stackexchange.svg)
](https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/users/63817/0xb10c) [ ![logo
linkedin](/img/footer/linkedin.svg) ](https://linkedin.com/in/0xb10c) [ ![logo
mastodon](/img/footer/mastodon.svg) ](https://x0f.org/@0xb10c) [ ![logo
twitter](/img/footer/twitter.svg) ](https://twitter.com/0xb10c) [ ![logo
keybase](/img/footer/keybase.svg) ](https://keybase.io/b10c) [ ![logo
github](/img/footer/github.svg) ](https://github.com/0xb10c) [ ![logo
rss](/img/footer/rss.svg) ](https://b10c.me/feed.xml) [ ![logo
reddit](/img/footer/reddit.svg) ](https://reddit.com/u/0xb10c) [ ![logo
mail](/img/footer/gmail.svg) ](mailto:0xb10c+b10c-me@gmail.com)

