[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Discovering TCR Part 1- Designing their first prototype

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Token Curated Registry Part 1

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/ov_aron-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Aron van Ammers

CTO and Founding Partner

Before Outlier Ventures, Aron completed an MSc in Business Information
Technology and has over 15 years of experience in software development in the
roles of CTO, architect, designer, consultant, developer and systems engineer
in both start-up and enterprise environments. He has extensive knowledge and
hands-on experience with full stack software development, decentralised
systems and smart contracts....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/aron-van-ammers/)

# Token Curated Registries are an exciting crypto-economic building block.

## By Aron van Ammers

Posted by Aron van Ammers - June 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/ov_aron-150x150.jpg)

June 2019

Posted by

Aron van Ammers

CTO and Founding Partner

Before Outlier Ventures, Aron completed an MSc in Business Information
Technology and has over 15 years of experience in software development in the
roles of CTO, architect, designer, consultant, developer and systems engineer
in both start-up and enterprise environments. He has extensive knowledge and
hands-on experience with full stack software development, decentralised
systems and smart contracts....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/aron-van-ammers/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

## They promise to leverage the wisdom of the crowd in curating lists of
things, any type of things, through economic incentives. They are, however,
still mostly theoretical. Little experimentation and formal research has been
carried out into different forms and configurations of TCRs.

In this project, as part of Outlier Ventures’ Research Programme with the
Imperial Centre for Cryptocurrency Research and Engineering and in
collaboration with [Ocean Protocol](https://oceanprotocol.com/) and[
MusicMap](https://musicmap.info/), a group of six students from Imperial
College took on the task of building a TCR Simulator that allows for
experimentation in an isolated framework to learn what works and what doesn't.
We have been impressed with their results, which included a working product
with smart contracts deployed on Ethereum-compatible blockchains, field
testing with a small group of users and a proposal for a new TCR mechanism. If
you want to have a look at their work, you can use a[ live version of the TCR
simulator](https://tcrsim.outlierventures.io/) and[ run the code
yourself](https://github.com/OutlierVentures/Token-Curated-Registry-
Simulator).

This project is a great example of our aim at Outlier Ventures to advance best
practices in cutting edge technology through applied research.

In a series of four blogs, Matthew, Emma, Hailey, Ece, Yoon and Noel give a
candid look into how they executed the project and the results they produced.

![Token Curated Registry Part 1 Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/Screenshot-2019-05-31-at-13.52.55.png)Figure 1: The
dynamic map of music genres on MusicMap https://musicmap.info/

### Why were we interested in this project?

Out of all the many project proposals, we decided to take a bold move and look
into the blockchain related projects. Aside from cryptocurrency related
proposals, AR/VR, sport technology, neural networks, live subtitling projects
were of our interests, but in the hopes of learning a new topic and being able
to brag that we know something about blockchain, we put a lot of our options
as blockchain projects. We were originally glad that we were chosen for the
Musicmap project, but it has been two weeks and now that we have discovered
that our project has not a whole lot to do with music, we are starting to
doubt our decision.

### Understanding TCR

As all of us were new to blockchain, especially TCR built on Ethereum smart
contracts, the first cycle consisted mostly of research. Through our brief
research throughout slightly less than two weeks, we believe that we now have
a basic understanding of a TCR, Token Curated Registry.

Token Curated Registry is a registry built on the smart contract on the
Ethereum platform and it holds list elements in a decentralised manner. There
are three big agents: Curators, Contributors, and Users. The ultimate goal is
to have a high-quality list so that it benefits the curators, contributors,
and the users of the list. Right now, we have a centralised system that
releases ranked registries on specific topics. For example, we have multiple
magazines and websites that release the Top 10 Universities in the world, and
it is easy to notice some bias in a sense that if the company releasing the
list was a UK company, Cambridge, Oxford, and Imperial are more likely to
appear in the upper spots while if the company releasing the list was a US
company, we would see UChicago, Carnegie Mellon appear more frequently while
UK universities are slightly pushed to the back. In order to reduce the bias
as much as possible, the theory of TCR was introduced and right now, it
doesn’t seem to have an actual implementation that is working successfully.

The curators of the list will have set a minimum deposit the contributors
would need to pay in order to challenge to be on the list, and if a
contributor was successful after the voting of the curators who are token-
holders, it would be on the registry and would be free to withdraw whenever
they would want to exit. In the case the application was rejected, the money
would be split amongst the curators and the listees of the list. The higher-
quality the list would become, the more users would be looking at the list,
ultimately achieving the theoretical goal of the TCR. In simple words, every
agent involved in the TCR formation would like to benefit from it but it isn’t
the case now.

### Designing our first prototype

Therefore, we decided to come to the rescue!

Actually, we hope that would be the case but at the moment, we are quite lost.
We intend to build a simulator that tests out multiple TCR mechanisms so that
we will be able to arrive at a TCR that will actually work. We have built our
first prototype of our simulator with possible behaviour modifications for the
three agents such as the number of curators, contributors, and users, and we
have thought of basic TCR mechanisms that could be modified such as couple
parameters like minimum deposit, and also a rather interesting change, whether
the users of the TCR should pay.

![Token Curated Registry Part 1 Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/Screenshot-2019-05-31-at-13.32.27.png)As shown in the
above figure, we finalised our decisions on the structure of our project and
the languages we will use to program the corresponding sections. Other than
designing a front end, we attended a workshop on building smart contracts in
Solidity and also tried the Truffle tutorial to familiarise ourselves with the
framework and Ganache. We have a long way to go, but in the next two weeks we
hope to have a more specific structure for the backend and start implementing
it, implement a TCR mechanism that varies with different parameters, and also
implement the connection between the frontend, backend, and the TCR. It seems
like a long way to go, and every time we have to take a step we seem to be
lost, but what fun would it be if all the answers lied in front of us!

### Problems faced

That was just positive us talking, but in reality, we have been facing quite a
number of problems. It was also difficult because we couldn’t spend all our
times and give all our attentions to the project as we had other university
work. First, for the TCR implementation, we had no idea where to even begin.
We forked the implemented TCR and with all the classes and seem-to-be-well-
implemented functions, we were lost. However, right now, we are heading in the
direction so that we can first implement a TCR that gets various inputs from
the frontend for the parameters and correctly make a TCR according to those
parameters.

Second, for the backend simulation, we struggled a lot on how to carry out the
simulation at the backend at the beginning. Our initial thought was to create
classes for each type of agents: Contributor, Curator and User, then generate
object for each individual in the simulation. However, we did not think it was
a good idea because it would cost too much computational power when we scale
up the simulation. Also, we figured it would be difficult to implement
concurrency when too many objects were interacting with each other. As a
result, we came up with a solution which hopefully makes our lives much
easier. Instead of having a class for each type of agent, we decided on
creating an agentGroup class for each different kind of agent. Third, fourth,
fifth, we could go on, and we are sure more problems and questions will come
up each minute we spend working on this project. However, fortunately, we have
our supervisor Dominik, and Ocean Protocol employees to help us whenever we
are too stuck and can’t seem to move on. We have been timid in sending our
questions in the concern that we may be asking dumb questions and they would
judge us for not knowing such basic things, and also in the concern that we
may be bothering them with our work. However, we are going to try our best not
to be intimidated and ask more starting now. After all, we could be the ones
who present a solution to the not working TCR!

It’s nice to dream big, but to get there, we should probably get back to work.
We have a long way to go.



_This article is for information purposes only and does not constitute
investment advice. This article does not amount to an invitation or inducement
to buy or sell an investment nor does it solicit any such offer or invitation
in any jurisdiction._

_In all cases, readers should conduct their own investigation and analysis of
the data in the article. All statements of opinion and/or belief contained in
this article and all views expressed and all projections, forecasts or
statements relating to expectations regarding future events represent Outlier
Ventures Operation Limited own assessment and interpretation of information
available as at the date of this article._

___No responsibility or liability is accepted by Outlier Ventures Operations
Limited or Sapia Partners LLP for reliance on the contents of this article._

_Outlier Ventures is an Appointed Representative of Sapia Partners LLP, a firm
authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)._

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

