[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Discovering TCR Part 4:  
our goal

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Token Curated Registry Part 4

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/ov_aron-150x150.jpg)

July 2019

Posted by

Aron van Ammers

CTO and Founding Partner

Before Outlier Ventures, Aron completed an MSc in Business Information
Technology and has over 15 years of experience in software development in the
roles of CTO, architect, designer, consultant, developer and systems engineer
in both start-up and enterprise environments. He has extensive knowledge and
hands-on experience with full stack software development, decentralised
systems and smart contracts....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/aron-van-ammers/)

# Token curated registries are an exciting crypto-economic building block.

## By Aron van Ammers

Posted by Aron van Ammers - July 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/ov_aron-150x150.jpg)

July 2019

Posted by

Aron van Ammers

CTO and Founding Partner

Before Outlier Ventures, Aron completed an MSc in Business Information
Technology and has over 15 years of experience in software development in the
roles of CTO, architect, designer, consultant, developer and systems engineer
in both start-up and enterprise environments. He has extensive knowledge and
hands-on experience with full stack software development, decentralised
systems and smart contracts....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/aron-van-ammers/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

## They promise to leverage the wisdom of the crowd in curating lists of
things, any type of things, through economic incentives. They are, however,
still mostly theoretical. Little experimentation and formal research has been
carried out into different forms and configurations of TCRs.

In this project, as part of Outlier Ventures’ Research Programme with the
Imperial Centre for Cryptocurrency Research and Engineering and in
collaboration with [Ocean Protocol](https://oceanprotocol.com/) and[
MusicMap](https://musicmap.info/), a group of six students from Imperial
College took on the task of building a TCR Simulator that allows for
experimentation in an isolated framework to learn what works and what doesn't.
We have been impressed with their results, which included a working product
with smart contracts deployed on Ethereum-compatible blockchains, field
testing with a small group of users and a proposal for a new TCR mechanism. If
you want to have a look at their work, you can use a[ live version of the TCR
simulator](https://tcrsim.outlierventures.io/) and[ run the code
yourself](https://github.com/OutlierVentures/Token-Curated-Registry-
Simulator).

This project is a great example of our aim at Outlier Ventures to advance best
practices in cutting edge technology through applied research.

In a series of four blogs, Matthew, Emma, Hailey, Ece, Yoon and Noel give a
candid look into how they executed the project and the results they produced.

As we were close to the end of the term, our project’s progress slowed down
for various reasons such as exam preparation, other individual coursework
deadlines and interview preparations for our compulsory 6-month placements.
Therefore we paused the project work for some time (around 2 - 3 weeks) and
then started working on it during the Christmas break.

However, all of us were in different countries (different time zones!!) as we
were visiting home for Christmas. Therefore it was difficult to communicate
with each other and coordinate the work.

### Our goal

###  1\. Finish off the implementation

Now that users can submit songs, we needed to implement functionality for
challenging songs, voting, updating status and receiving rewards. After having
these functionalities implemented, we can have a full working TCR!

###  2\. Write the project report

As we are close to the project deadline, it was time to document everything we
had done! We needed to focus on writing an approximately 30-page report,
explaining:

  * Objectives of this project and what we managed to achieve.
  * Software Engineering practices we adapted, splitting up the work,  
project meetings - basically project management details

  * Initial research about TCR (we thought this section would be very useful  
for anyone who is not familiar with the TCR concept)

  * Implementation details
  * Evaluation of our final product (Of course we first need to finish  
implementing it (!) )

  * Future Extensions

###  3\. Prepare for the final presentation

Each group is given a 30-minute slot to present their projects. At first, this
time seemed like it was more than enough:

  * 5 mins introduction problem statement, how TCRs are addressing the  
problem)

  * 5-7 mins demo
  * 5 mins project architecture, implementation overview
  * 5 mins evaluation
  * 3-4 mins future extensions, reflection
  * 5 mins questions

However, most of the audience were not even familiar with the concept of a
Token Curated Registry - little challenge: how to explain what a TCR is under
5 mins when it took us a week to fully understand what it was and what problem
it was solving. Also, the output of the TCR is built over time. There is a
commit vote period, there is revealing the result of the voting period and so
on. The length of these periods depend on the TCR mechanism parameters but
they are mostly set to a week - another problem: How to do our demo when the
voting process itself requires some time? Spoiler alert: Our team member Noel,
made the time pass quicker! Eventually, we got where we wanted to be, but it
was a busy Christmas break!

_This article is for information purposes only and does not constitute
investment advice. This article does not amount to an invitation or inducement
to buy or sell an investment nor does it solicit any such offer or invitation
in any jurisdiction._

_In all cases, readers should conduct their own investigation and analysis of
the data in the article. All statements of opinion and/or belief contained in
this article and all views expressed and all projections, forecasts or
statements relating to expectations regarding future events represent Outlier
Ventures Operation Limited own assessment and interpretation of information
available as at the date of this article._

___No responsibility or liability is accepted by Outlier Ventures Operations
Limited or Sapia Partners LLP for reliance on the contents of this article._







Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

