Toggle Navigation [ [![Concourse Open](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)
](https://concourseopen.com/blog/)

  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ConcourseOpen "Twitter")
  * [Discord](https://discord.gg/mzDxADE "Discord")
  * [Projects](https://concourseopen.com "Projects")

## Settle Portfolio

Modular portfolio management supporting Digital Asset and Crypto Derivatives.

Open App

Trade DEXes like a Pro with DEX.AG - real time charts, prices, and order books

# Trade DEXes like a Pro with DEX.AG - real time charts, prices, and order
books

##### February 20, 2020

Introducing [DEX.AG Pro](https://dex.ag/pro) Trading - We couldn't be more
excited to launch this next evolution of DEX.AG as part of our larger vision
to increase the adoption of DEXes.

### No one likes to be left in the dark

In the early days of decentralized exchanges (DEXes), traders often cited the
lack of liquidity as their reason for not switching away from centralized
exchanges. As the years have passed, DEX liquidity as grown and DEX
aggregators like DEX.AG have risen to help improve liquidity even further. And
needless to say, the DEX trading experience has vastly improved. For the most
part, swapping tokens from your wallet is easier than it's ever been.

However, the truth is that professional traders require more than simple swaps
to properly execute their trading strategies. And, simple swaps come with
serious disadvantages when it comes to price discovery. With simple swaps, it
can sometimes feels like you're flying blind. Despite not knowing the depth of
liquidity at any given price, you have to either break up orders to prevent
price slippage or just swap the whole amount and hope for the best. Neither
situation is ideal or convenient.

### Amateur hour is over. Trade like a Pro with DEX.AG

DEX.AG's new Pro Trading interface equips you with the tools and information
you need to make informed trades even in a pinch. Real time prices, charts,
and order books help you stay on top of these fast moving markets. It combines
the sophisticated yet familiar interface you'd expect from a centralized
exchange with all the advantages of trading with our X Blaster which splits
your trades across multiple DEXes to get you the best price for your trade.

[![DEX.AG Pro interface](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-
content/uploads/2020/02/Selection_999020.png)](https://dex.ag/pro)DEX.AG Pro
Trading interface - You can see the real time order book updating in this
screenshot.

#### Seize more opportunities with real time prices and order books

No refreshing or clicking - prices and orderbooks update in real time right in
front of your eyes so you'll never have to think twice whether or not you're
getting the right price.

With live order books, you can now make fully informed decisions on how to
split your orders up to get the most value out of your trades. Not to mention,
there are times when the order book spread is so tight it even goes
**_negative_** _(as seen in screenshot above)_. This means that the bids or
asks have crossed the mid order book price. It's the sort of opportunity
that's only possible via aggregation.

#### See the bigger picture of what's happening in the markets

Don't miss the forest for the trees in your trading strategy. Having data from
both centralized and decentralized exchanges at a glance means it's never been
easier for you to assess market conditions and trade only when liquidity is in
your favor.

### Start making smarter trades today

What are you waiting for? **Try** **out[DEX.AG Pro
Trading](https://dex.ag/pro) today! **And please let us know what you think in
our [Discord](https://discord.gg/vSATe24). Follow us on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/DEXAG_TokenWire) to stay informed on the latest
updates to DEX.AG.

* * *

##### ‚õ∞ [Concourse Open Community‚Äã](https://concourseopen.com/)

##### ‚õΩ [ETH Gas Station](https://ethgasstation.info/)

##### üêø [DEX.AG](https://dex.ag/)

##### üçá [DeFi Pulse](https://defipulse.com/)

##### [üé£ ](http://data.concourseopen.com)[DeFi Pulse
Data](http://data.defipulse.com)

##### üí∏ [Whisp](https://whisp.money/)

##### üî• [Rek.to](https://rek.to/)

## Post navigation

[Previous

DEX.AG: Expert Trading Mode with Charts

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-expert-trading-beta/)

[ Next

DEX.AG Daredevil Update: Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and New Wallet Options

](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-daredevil-update-limit-orders/)

Search for: Search

#### Recent Posts

  * [DEX.AG Unveils User Balances Page, Transaction History Page, and many other UX/UI Upgrades Inspired by Feedback](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-ui-upgrades-balances-history/)
  * [Push it to the Limit with DEX.AG - NEW Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and Connect Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-limit-orders/)
  * [DEX.AG Daredevil Update: Limit Orders, Curve.fi, and New Wallet Options](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-daredevil-update-limit-orders/)
  * [Trade DEXes like a Pro with DEX.AG - real time charts, prices, and order books](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-pro-trading/)
  * [DEX.AG: Expert Trading Mode with Charts](https://concourseopen.com/blog/dex-ag-expert-trading-beta/)

#### Archives

  * [March 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/03/)
  * [February 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/02/)
  * [January 2020](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2020/01/)
  * [December 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/12/)
  * [November 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/11/)
  * [October 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/10/)
  * [September 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/09/)
  * [August 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/08/)
  * [July 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/07/)
  * [June 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/06/)
  * [May 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/05/)
  * [April 2019](https://concourseopen.com/blog/2019/04/)

#### Categories

  * [Business](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/business/)
  * [Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/community/)
  * [Concourse Open Community](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-community/)
  * [Concourse Open Constructions](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourse-open-constructions/)
  * [ConcourseQ](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/concourseq/)
  * [DAO](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dao/)
  * [Developer Docs](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/developer-docs/)
  * [DEX](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex/)
  * [DEX.AG](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/dex-ag/)
  * [Ecosystem](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/ecosystem/)
  * [Exchange](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchange/)
  * [Exchanges](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/exchanges/)
  * [Explainers](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/explainers/)
  * [Humans](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/humans/)
  * [New Features](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/new-features/)
  * [Protocol](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/protocol/)
  * [Technology](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/technology/)
  * [Terrible Token Tuesday](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/terrible-token-tuesday/)
  * [Trading](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/trading/)
  * [Whisp](https://concourseopen.com/blog/category/whisp/)

#### Meta

  * [Log in](https://concourseopen.com/blog/wp-login.php)
  * [Entries feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/feed/)
  * [Comments feed](https://concourseopen.com/blog/comments/feed/)
  * [WordPress.org](https://wordpress.org/)

[![Settle](/blog/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/cropped-
concourse_open2.png)](https://concourseopen.com)

(C) 2021 Concourse Open

