[ ![The Integral](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/04/dydx-
logo-white-1.svg) ](https://integral.dydx.exchange)

  * [ ![The Integral](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/04/dydx-logo-white-1.svg) ](https://integral.dydx.exchange)
  * ### Categories

[

###

Open Finance ](/tag/open-finance/)

[

###

Derivatives ](/tag/derivatives/)

[

###

Macroeconomics ](/tag/macroeconomics/)

[

###

dYdX Announcements ](/tag/dydx-announcements/)

[

###

Educational ](/tag/educational/)

[Trade](https://trade.dydx.exchange)

# Trader Insights: Yield Farming

[Educational](https://integral.dydx.exchange/tag/educational/) • Jul 5, 2020

[
](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://integral.dydx.exchange/yield-
farming/&title=Trader%20Insights%3A%20Yield%20Farming) [
](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Trader%20Insights%3A%20Yield%20Farming&url=https://integral.dydx.exchange/yield-
farming/)

> This is episode **#02** of Trader Insights, a series on trends & strategies
> for trading cryptocurrency.

## A new way to build network effects and liquidity in crypto

One of the earliest beliefs within the Ethereum community was that native
tokens were an excellent way to bootstrap network effects. While the idea of
early network users owning equity was powerful, the actual implementation was
blown out of proportion during the 2017 ICO boom. During that time, token
holders were much more focused on speculation than building the underlying
network. More recently, decentralized finance protocols have been using new
token incentives to drive liquidity and users to their platforms. Formally
dubbed “liquidity mining,” decentralized finance protocols have been designed
to reward their users with native token that can be used as both a cash flow
and governance asset.

The first decentralized finance protocol to utilize liquidity mining was
**[Synthetix](https://www.synthetix.io/)**. SNX holders that turned their sUSD
into sETH and contributed to the **[Uniswap](https://uniswap.org/)** sETH pool
were rewarded with more SNX. The experiment was successful — sETH became one
of the most liquid assets on Uniswap.
[**Compound**](https://compound.finance/)’s most recent COMP launch was the
next protocol to launch liquidity mining, and based on early indications, it
has been a massive success. When COMP first launched, the protocol had roughly
$100 million USD in assets locked in the protocol. Now, the protocol boasts
nearly $1 billion USD in locked assets, just two weeks after launch.

It’s clear that liquidity mining is a great way to bootstrap network effects,
which for decentralized finance protocols means _liquidity_. Diving into
Compound’s numbers post COMP launch, over 2,000 unique suppliers and over 800
unique borrowers have been collecting COMP daily.

![](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/1A50RNjmEb8deAV7JQn8d34ZcAcDl0nkbjaNCF5aBR_DiFL0NVQJWmSAXiMV7kDHu1jW2LNQf4SttLO9wkLmHWH7YqwxWIb7cFGYlLpAednQpReDtye4Mq4u6iC2XlXxnvUtda6x)Source:
[duneanalytics.com](duneanalytics.com)![](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/dJpjDADhz8-jjS9b0aKu0a_nCYxZHueP2FIUPDKR5ThXEVjjYvZXLDPbiTzDb0om8eBBKZEd1w6TtSP15bby9yCro-6yCt3lvOJh64Xx_7qBf8WE3CDyVnRDQ8MfHZO8ByMtiZl3)Source:
[duneanalytics.com](duneanalytics.com)

In terms of unique users, the COMP launch increased total uniques from 30,000
to 40,000, over 30% increase in two weeks. When comparing Compound’s unique
user growth with the DeFi more broadly, it’s clear that liquidity mining
through COMP was an effective way of growing users.

![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/_wikvPPycPB8Qg-N6opDR4YuDh2toIRmOTnbCmYmJlhXGi2cYtKFrPSEkbejp2pW-
WulMOWXkrqoN6DoDxUa1SeqrlKPCFXqlTBiky--mT4pupp8936fuh-
CKp66bE4DkITldccy)Source:
[duneanalytics.com](duneanalytics.com)![](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/w-VqyhBQYa8tJy_hmA16vEWp0rMpWTU7zAZxEflSmlD_AfYtvnsDoMOBFbKYnEQGcCqRH2zTFsMGJ_Vg0T9yrIZKWRggSCS3qirqaNhayweXkqq1ic3t2QirD_97nEQwHnEWy9V6)Source:
[duneanalytics.com](duneanalytics.com)

An important aspect of liquidity mining is that it gives decentralized finance
protocols a way to compete with larger centralized platforms. For one,
liquidity mining can actually pull idle assets out of exchanges and into DeFi
protocols. Assuming those idle assets aren’t earning any interest, liquidity
mining is extremely competitive to centralized exchanges. Second, liquidity
mining drastically reduces the costs associated with spinning up new
maker/taker books. Decentralized finance protocols using liquidity mining can
be much more efficient than centralized venues in going to market with new
products quicker.

Liquidity mining also won’t be unique to a single DeFi protocol. Soon after
COMP launched, Balancer protocol began its BAL mining incentive program.
Similarly, Synthetix announced a liquidity mining partnership with REN
protocol and Curve to build liquidity for tokenized representations of BTC on
Ethereum. Given the success of these launches, it’s very likely we may see a
liquidity mining boom in the same spirit as the 2017 token boom.

While liquidity mining induced growth is good for DeFi protocols, nothing ever
lasts forever. It’s no surprise that users and assets grew as the underlying
price of COMP increased. If Coinbase never announced their intention to
support COMP, it’s unclear just how high user growth and total value locked
would have reached. It’s important to distinguish network growth that’s
strictly tied to speculating on the underlying token rather than users wanting
to accumulate the token over the long term.

## Market Roundup

 **A prolonged low volatility regime:** Both BTC and ETH vols have been muted
since the halving. This makes sense given the hype around the event, but both
BTC and ETH have remained silent in the face of new fundamental catalysts.
Even more unique, ETH implied volatility has fallen below BTC implied
volatility. Given ETH has historically been much more volatile than BTC, this
has caught a lot of the trading community off guard.  

![](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/6fmS9lmnKyT-
AkNu3S6jU0R2PSgNLG1lQargkJNSEiafmBsqvFhxLWO6rO5NjT5YXA8_FJiTO7vX30dZFjxaouQGauh782wi_feHgsa6aL-e3uYh_-
YBp6mNtYqDsnpWxiB2aoyJ)Source:
[skew.com](skew.com)![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/gdQerDYvkndDe6bUVkayUYIia9L2elntXyd9oci6w6LZPwviAkAp27oZm2M1NUa6dqn_u9O2jr6uUjkKg86YNFWrr04mEBgceG9iX1KVQ15SV0DZppOAPCS_Bn5_Zjgc6hGYgDEr)Source:
[skew.com](skew.com)

There’s a couple of reasons for this low vol regime. First, miners have likely
been more active hedgers since the halving — working with finance firms who
build them structured products to offset risk and capture yield. Many of these
products involve some form of yield harvesting that comes from selling
volatility. Second, an interesting theory shared by Genesis Volatility is that
a lot of the ICO projects with large ETH treasuries have been monetizing their
holdings by selling volatility.

Regardless of what’s causing such low volatility, historically, volatility has
spent little time at these levels.

 **DeFi derivatives:** Derivatives exchange FTX has launched a number of new
DeFi focused trading products. The big release was a new DeFi index comprising
a number of the highest market cap assets. This came after a secular DeFi
uptrend which we discussed in our previous issue of [dYdX Trader
Insights](https://integral.dydx.exchange/dydx-trader-insights-defi-alpha/).
Along with the DeFi index came individual markets for COMP and BAL.

A week after launch, the DeFi market has roughly $1 million USD worth of open
interest, while COMP and BAL have $3.5 million and $250k in open interest
respectively. Not surprisingly, all of the associated perpetual markets have a
negative funding rate, indicating there is more short interest than long
interest. Performance wise, the DeFi index has come down a bit, but is still
trading much higher from its launch price.

![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/txWeduoy6G-9NwHQpBlyx3DeLGCLfPrpcPQ4_s79psK3XWR3oepIasjQLpZQes1U7FsDWtJy-
iWD3UWEQWIBjBwiaKNdRdIj0shbBor-bUpEUhUdmBxiLDYLLKdfEcoWSyRcRZ9O)Source:
[tradingview.com](tradingview.com)

 **The return of decentralized betting:** The crypto ecosystem has long
fantasized about truly decentralized betting markets. Over the coming weeks,
two DeFi protocols, Synthetix and Augur will be launching betting markets.
Synthetix is unique in that they’re releasing parimutuel binary options. These
markets allow speculators to trade events based on binary outcomes. For
example, will BTC trade above $10k on or before July 31st 2020? Augur, on the
other hand, aims to be a more robust no-limits betting platform where any
arbitrary market can be created. This is an exciting space to watch and we’re
expecting strong volumes for their respective launches.

## First Derivative

![](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/07/DAI-USDC-
Volume.png)Daily volume for our DAI-USDC
market.![](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/07/ETH-DAI-
Volume.png)Daily volume for our ETH-DAI
market.![](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/07/ETH-USDC-
Volume.png)Daily volume for our ETH-USDC
market.![](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/07/BTC-USD-
Volume.png)Daily volume for our [BTC-USD](trade.dydx.exchange/perpetual)
Perpetual
market.![](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/07/Funding-
APR.png)The funding rate for the [BTC-USD
Perpetual](trade.dydx.exchange/perpetual)
market.![](https://integral.dydx.exchange/content/images/2020/07/Buys-vs-
Sells-1.png)Buys vs. Sells vs. Price for the [BTC-USD
Perpetual](trade.dydx.exchange/perpetual) market.

## Second Derivative

Over the last two weeks, we saw the most flow in ETH<>USDC, with DAI<>USDC
being a close second. Liquidity has improved on our ETH<>USDC so that most
likely became our preferred venue to get ETH exposure. Based on everything
happening with yield farming, we attribute the increase in DAI<>USDC volume to
users swapping stablecoins so they can capture various yield opportunities.

BTC volatility has remained low for quite some time, but we saw much more
selling than buying on the BTC<>USDC perpetual. This is in line with BTC’s
price decline and we’re also seeing more delt neutral traders on our swap that
are collecting funding. More delta neutral swap traders is also evident by the
drop in the perpetual’s funding rate, moving from just at 40% apr down to -10%
apr by the end of the two week period.

## Around the Open Financial System

[ **Curve DAO spec goes live**](https://github.com/curvefi/curve-dao-
contracts/blob/master/doc/readme.pdf)

  * Curve Finance released a formal spec of their CRV governance token and the Aragon DAO it will govern. Also included in the whitepaper is an overview of how votes will be weighted in the DAO. Curve’s system is unique in that votes are weighted both by total stake, but also for how long CRV tokens are stored in time-locked contracts. Curve is the first DeFi protocol to require governance participants to time-lock their tokens.

[ **USDT surpasses $10 billion in total market
cap**](https://messari.io/article/usdt-surpasses-10-billion)

  * Tether continued its ascent as the cryptodollarization trend captures more of the crypto market cap. As we discussed in our piece on [crypto dollar yields](https://integral.dydx.exchange/crypto-dollar-yields/), stablecoins are the center pieces to a whole new class of financial instruments and most importantly, these instruments allow their holders to earn dollar yields not available in the traditional world. This most recent spike in issuance has been a direct result of DeFi offering these large yields.

[ **Balance’s $500k vulnerability**](https://messari.io/article/defi-faces-
another-high-profile-attack-as-balancer-loses-500k)

  * A vulnerability was found in Balancer Protocol shortly after it launched in which an attacker could use a flash loan and then trade that principle within a specific token pool. In this specific exploit, an attacker actually borrowed funds from our exchange and then traded within the STA/STONK pool, manipulating the price of the pool so that they could swap assets at a much cheaper price.

[ **We wrote about our integration with Curve
Finance**](https://twitter.com/dydxprotocol/status/1275835516039106560?s=20)

  * We released a tweet thread that went into a bit more depth about our recent integration with Curve finance. We’re excited about it for a couple of reasons. For one, by utilizing Curve, we’re giving our users the most liquid way to access stablecoin liquidity. Second, using Curve is a much more seamless user experience compared to swapping between stablecoins across fragmented DEXs.

* * *

 **[dYdX](https://trade.dydx.exchange?trk-origin=Integral)** is the most
powerful open trading platform for crypto assets with spot, margin, and
perpetual markets.

 **[Start trading on dYdX today](https://trade.dydx.exchange?trk-
origin=Integral)** and check out our new **[BTC-USDC Perpetual
Market](https://trade.dydx.exchange/perpetual/BTC-USDC?trk-origin=Integral)**!

You can reach dYdX via email at
[contact@dydx.exchange](mailto:contact@dydx.exchange), on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/dydxprotocol), or on our [official
**Discord**](https://discord.gg/yah42Rb).

#### Subscribe to our newsletter

Get the latest posts delivered right to your inbox.

Your email address Subscribe

![Success!](https://integral.dydx.exchange/assets/images/success.png?v=7304b94c7b)

Now check your inbox and click the link to confirm your subscription.

Please enter a valid email address

Oops! There was an error sending the email, please try later.

[ ](https://integral.dydx.exchange/author/dydx/)

####  [dYdX Exchange](https://integral.dydx.exchange/author/dydx/)

dYdX is a decentralized exchange that supports spot, margin, and perpetuals
trading. The Integral is a blog covering Open Finance, Crypto Markets,
Bitcoin, Crypto Derivatives and dYdX Announcements.

No results for your search, please try with something else.

The Integral (C) 2022   •   Published with [Ghost](https://ghost.org)

[ ](https://t.me/joinchat/GBnMlBb9mQblQck2pThTgw) [
](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dydx/) [
](https://twitter.com/dydxprotocol)

[JavaScript license
information](https://integral.dydx.exchange/assets/html/javascript.html?v=7304b94c7b)

Great! You've successfully subscribed.

Great! Next, complete checkout for full access.

Welcome back! You've successfully signed in.

Success! Your account is fully activated, you now have access to all content.

