After about 1000 AD northwestern Europe started a gradual switch from using
oxen to using horses for farm traction and transportation.  This trend
culminated in an [eighteenth-century
explosion](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/06/trotting-ahead-of-
malthus.html) in roads carrying horse-drawn carriages and wagons, as well as
in canals, and works greatly extending the navigability of rivers, both
carrying horse-drawn barges. This reflected a great rise in the use of
cultivated fodder, a hallmark of the novel agricultural system that was
evolving in northwestern Europe from the start of the second millennium:
[stationary pastoralism](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2011/05/lactase-
persistence-and-quasi.html).  During the same period, and especially in the
seventeenth through nineteenth centuries, most of civilized East Asia, and in
particular Chinese civilization along its coast, navigable rivers, and canals,
faced increasing Malthusian pressures and evolved in the opposite direction:
from oxen towards far more costly and limited human porters. Through the early
middle ages China had been far ahead, in terms of division of labor and
technology, of the roving bandits of northern Europe, but after the latter
region's transition to stationary pastoralism that gap closed and Europe
surged ahead, a [growth
divergence](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2013/11/european-asian-
divergence-predates.html) that culminated in the industrial revolution.  In
the eighteenth century Europe, and thus in the early industrial revolution,
muscle power was the engine of land transportation, and hay was its gasoline.  
  
[Metcalfe's Law](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metcalfe%27s_law) states that a
value of a network is proportional to the square of the number of its nodes.
In an area where good soils, mines, and forests are randomly distributed, the
number of nodes valuable to an industrial economy is proportional to the area
encompassed.  The number of such nodes that can be economically accessed is an
inverse square of the cost per mile of transportation.  Combine this  with
Metcalfe's Law and we reach a dramatic but solid mathematical conclusion: the
potential value of a land transportation network is the inverse fourth power
of the cost of that transportation. A reduction in transportation costs in a
trade network by a factor of two increases the potential value of that network
by a factor of sixteen. While a power of exactly 4.0 will usually be too high,
due to redundancies, this does show how the cost of transportation can have a
radical nonlinear impact on the value of the trade networks it enables.  This
formalizes Adam Smith's observations: the division of labor (and thus value of
an economy) increases with the extent of the market, and the extent of the
market is heavily influenced by transportation costs (as he extensively
discussed in his _Wealth of Nations_ ).  
  
The early industrial revolution was highly dependent on bringing together bulk
goods such as coal and iron ore.  Land transportation of such materials more
than a dozen miles in most parts of the world was prohibitively costly, and
they were only rarely located a shorter distance from navigable water (the
costs per mile of water transport were generally orders of magnitude cheaper
than the costs per mile of of land transport).  As a result, the early
industrial revolution, and the potential for a region to be the first to
industrialize, was very sensitive to small changes in land transportation
costs.  
  
Furthermore, land and sea-borne transportation were far more complements than
substitutes.  Cheaper land transportation was a "force multiplier" for water
transportation.  Decreasing the costs of getting to port from field or mine by
a factor of two increased the number of fields and mines accessible by a
factor of four, and increased the number of possible ways to divide labor, and
thus the value, by an even greater factor via Metcalfe's law.  This in turn
incentived greater investment in sea-borne transport. It's thus not surprising
that, even before the industrial revolution, the leaders in global trade and
colonization were European countries that could access the Atlantic.  
  
By the dawn of the industrial revolution in northwest Europe the effects of
horse haulage had already been dramatic: drop by a factor of two in the costs,
and increase in speed by about the same factor, of transporting goods by land,
the corresponding increase in commercial crop area and in area that could be
economically lumbered and coal and metals that could be mined.   Multiply that
factor of four by much more when we factor in (1) innovations in wheels,
tires, shock absorption, and road building that followed on the heels, as is
were, of the great increase in horse haulage, and (2) the great increase in
mileage and inland penetration of navigable rivers and canals, especially in
the 18th century, the barges again hauled by horses.  And as Metcalfe's Law
suggests, the number of combinations, and thus the value, increased by a far
greater factor still. Not only did northwestern European ports have access to
far more land, but there were far more ports far more "inland" along rivers
and canals, thanks again chiefly to the draft horses and the nutrient-rich
cultivated fodder that fed them.  
  
To enable the industrial revolution, mines and nutrient-dense fodder had to be
colocated within efficient bulk transport distance of each other — which in
the case of horses hauling coal or wood by rural road, was typically less than
twenty miles, and for oxen and human porters far less still — to produce the
low-cost bulk transportation networks needed to make industrial revolution
scale use of most commercial crops and mines. Efficient bulk transportation is
needed _all the way_ between the iron mine, the coal mine, and the smelter.
Because the cost per mile of water transport was so much smaller than the
costs of land transport, this “last few miles to the mine” problem usually
played a dominant role in transportation economics, somewhat analogous to the
“last mile” problem in modern cable networks. That’s why stationary
pastoralism with its efficient markets for nutrient-dense (because cultivated)
fodder was such a huge win — it allowed horses to be housed at the mines,
canals, roads, and factories where they worked, which no place in the world
outside Europe could during that era do.  Nutrient-dense fodder created a
virtuous recursion, enabling itself to be harvested (via horse-drawn mows and
rakes) and transported to mine, factory, and stable at increasingly lower
costs.  
  
Industrialization came in many phases. Very roughly speaking, the first phase,
in the latter half of the eighteenth century, involved the culmination and
optimization of the use of horses, by northwestern Europe, and especially
England, greatly expanding its horse wagon and carriage roads and horse-drawn
barge canal networks.  Horses brought coke or charcoal and iron ore to the
smelters. Horse-powered capstans performed some arduous farm tasks such as
threshing. Along with primitive Newcomen steam engines they pumped coal mines.
Horse gins also powered most of the early versions of innovative textile
machinery (they switched to more power-efficient water mills when they later
scaled up).  That classic carnival ride, the merry-go-round, was inspired by
these perpetually circling horses.  
  
Again roughly speaking, the second phase of industrial growth, after about
1830, was more scientific and far easier to copy than northwestern Europe's
unique biology: steam engines came to replace horse gins and water mills for
running industrial machinery, and the steam-powered railroad radically lowered
transportation costs between major mines, factories, and urban centers. When
non-European countries industrialized, such as Japan after the 1870s, they did
it in a "leap-frog" style: they skipped over the long-evolved improvement in
draft animals and went straight to mature steam engines and, soon thereafter,
electrical motors.  Much as countries installing phone networks for the first
time over the last few decades have leap-frogged over the land line era, going
straight to cell phones. Starting early in the 20th century industrializing
countries could replace all the remaining important functions of the horse
with internal combustion engines.  England, which made the longest and most
thorough use of the horse, and thereby had the transportation economies
allowing it to pioneer the industrial revolution, had a less pressing need to
use the internal combustion engine and thus lagged enough in that technology
so that second-generation  industrializers like Japan, Germany, and the United
States became leaders in internal combustion engine products.  
  
Given the scientific nature of the second phase of the industrial revolution,
which could be discovered by any culture full of [literate
craftsmen](http://szabo.best.vwh.net/bookconsciousness.html), this second
phase was more technologically inevitable and didn't ultimately depend on
northwestern Europe's unique biology.  At the same time, during the long
evolution that culminate in the industrial revolution, and during its first
phase, land transportation the world over was muscle powered and the unique
system of stationary pastoralism, by breeding draft horses that ran on
cultivated, nutrient-dense fodder, substantially lowered transportation costs.
This allowed the value of northwestern Europe's bulk transportation networks
to radically increase and made it very nearly as inevitable that that region
would be the pioneers of the industrial revolution.  
  
Hat tips and references: Edward Wright and Raymond Crotty among many other
authors have explored some of these issues.  

Raymond Crotty

Raymond Crottyamong many other authors have explored some of the issues.

