[![](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-DRHKEv9sbXs/Vr_gEUOpSHI/AAAAAAAAAVA/z7LoONA_YOQ/s320/CarterSweater1978.png)](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-DRHKEv9sbXs/Vr_gEUOpSHI/AAAAAAAAAVA/z7LoONA_YOQ/s1600/CarterSweater1978.png)  
---  
  
_Carter lectures the U.S.  _  
 _on energy, 1978_  
In 1798. the Reverend Thomas Malthus wrote his influential [essay on
population](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/An_Essay_on_the_Principle_of_Population),
arguing that population grows exponentially while the supply of food, energy,
and other commodities only grows linearly.  As a result, the vast majority of
humankind is doomed to be mired in poverty unless some even grimmer reapers
than starvation (war, disease, etc.) are brought to bear, or births are
moderated.  In 1978 U.S. president Jimmy Carter, reflecting a popular
intellectual Malthusian sentiment of the time, sat by his fireplace in a comfy
sweater and instructed Americans to turn down the thermostat lest we run out
of oil.  (Here's a [similar
speech](http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/americanexperience/features/primary-
resources/carter-energy/%20%E2%80%A6) he gave a year earlier).  
  
Malthus' description of a general pattern of human history (and indeed of the
history of all living things, an observation that inspired Charles Darwin) was
by and large accurate.  But since the time of Malthus, writing during the
early industrial revolution, developed and even most developing economies have
managed to [trot](http://unenumerated.blogspot.ca/2011/06/trotting-ahead-of-
malthus.html) or even race ahead of Malthus: per capita income has increased
tremendously far beyond the near-starvation limits set by Malthusian theory.
Industrial productivity has pulled vastly increased amounts of commodities
from the earth, using them to produce an unprecedented abundance of goods.
Meanwhile population growth has radically declined until today many developing
economies have below-replacement birthrates. Nevertheless, Malthus'
observations and reasoning periodically stage an intellectual and popular
comeback: industrial civilization can only cheat Malthus so long, thought
leaders warn us; if we do not mend our unsustainable ways, and convert from
gluttony to stringent conservation, Malthus' grim formula will soon return to
wreak an awful revenge.  

[![](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-pt6mH6MPp4E/TLF14yeAG-I/AAAAAAAAALU/s9_6kTfrLT0/s320/ElementalAbundance_BacteriaVsSeaWater.JPG)](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-pt6mH6MPp4E/TLF14yeAG-I/AAAAAAAAALU/s9_6kTfrLT0/s1600/ElementalAbundance_BacteriaVsSeaWater.JPG)

  
What [chemical inputs does life depend on
most](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2010/10/elements-evolution-and-
nitrogen-crisis.html)?  Hydrogen and oxygen from water is plentiful. Plants
obtain copious carbon by breathing in carbon dioxide (and animals from eating
the carbohydrates, fats, and proteins in the plants or other animals).
Nitrogen-fixing bacteria (and legume plants that are symbiotic with them)
obtain plenty of single-N nitrogen by splitting the plentiful but strongly
bonded N2 in our atmosphere.  Artificial means of nitrogen fixing depend
primarily on natural gas or oil prices. Metals are plentiful in soil. The only
significant remaining scarce ingredients for crops are potassium (K) and
phosphorous (P) -- and of these on land phosphorous, which must be available
in the form of phosphate, is the most needed and most lacking of all.  No
technology can substitute anything else for phosphate: it has to be phosphate
in order to form DNA, the essential cell energy molecule ATP, and crucial
parts of our bones and teeth. Phosphate is thus the most geopolitically
important agricultural input and exhibit A in Malthusian warnings about
limited resources and unsustainable practices.  This also makes phosphorous a
favorite target of stockpilers and speculators during a Malthusian scare.  
  
The most important commodity for mining, manufacturing, and especially
transportation, for almost all the 20th century and through the present time,
is petroleum oil. Internal combustion and other engines powered by fuels
refined from petroleum have since the early decades of the 20th century
increasingly dominated he transport of goods and people on air, sea, and land.
For much of the late 19th and 20th centuries heating was a major use of oil;
in that use it is being eclipsed by its cousin carbon fuel, natural gas. Oil
is also the world's most important feedstock for the production of plastics,
synthetic fibers, and a wide variety of other chemicals. While oil makes up a
much larger price value of trade than phosphates, oil in the long run is
potentially far more vulnerable to substitution innovation. And as we shall
see, it also has been at least somewhat more amenable to technological
improvements in supply.  
  
[![](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-yj2QW7y9_j4/VsAUw8PB1PI/AAAAAAAAAV0/36Loi4FZu8k/s320/LimitsToGrowth.png)](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-yj2QW7y9_j4/VsAUw8PB1PI/AAAAAAAAAV0/36Loi4FZu8k/s1600/LimitsToGrowth.png)[](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-N-QX4T1LlXM/VsATJB5FSNI/AAAAAAAAAVY/rXNLn2g-P4U/s1600/ErlichPopulationBomb.png)Between
the mid-1800s, by which time the industrial revolution had transformed much of
Europe, and the end of the Bretton Woods era, sentiments about the
unsustainability of industrial civilization were usually on the intellectual
fringe.  But since the late 1960s, cries of doom and sophisticated warnings
that we must redesign our economy, our technology, and civilization itself to
"sustainable" lifestyles have become mainstream.  Malthusian allegations that
we face diminishing, or soon-to-be diminishing, supplies of raw materials such
as oil, natural gas, metal ores and fertilizers,  have become "common
knowledge."  
  
This component of green ideology has been fueled by two Malthusian scares: two
substantial periods, the first between about 1968-1980, the second c. 2004-14,
during which nominal commodity prices (i.e. the prices you see posted)
increased dramatically,  and "real" (adjusted for some measure of inflation,
such as the consumer price index) commodity prices increased substantially.
These price rises led to prophecies of a coming great diminution in our
abilities to feed, cloth, and transport ourselves, much less to enjoy all the
other abundant goods we have become accustomed to in the developed world as a
result of the industrial revolutions that have occurred during and since the
time of Malthus.  We faced a miserable future unless we changed our ways.
Unless we stopped having babies and stringently conserved and recycle our
resources (the general green movement), or invest in solar power and electric
cars (the Silicon Valley green movement), our future was deemed to be doom.
This remains a predominant ideology in Western culture today.  
  
A big part of those scares and of the green movement has been environmental
limits -- that we are damaging our environments, our planet, the one and only
planet we can ever hope to naturally inhabit in the foreseeable future, far
too much -- adding too much sulfur dioxide, ozone, or carbon dioxide to the
atmosphere, too many fertilizers to our waterways, etc.  This essay does not
address those concerns, which provide a far stronger argument for the
sustainability movement than the topic of this essay -- the supply of
commodities, especially of raw minerals from the earth such as oil, metal
ores, and fertilizers, and the theories that have become popular since the
late 1960s that historical rates of industrial growth cannot be sustained in
the face of expected future diminution of those supplies.  Indeed, if you are
already scared by our ability to pollute our planet, after you finish reading
this essay you should be even more scared. Our planet places no material
limits on our ability to consume and pollute it. If we are to have such limits
we must put them in place, politically, ourselves.  (As for me, I'm scared
both by the prospects for greater pollution _and_ by the fact that political
solutions and hoped-for advances in technology, not natural limits, will be
the only ways to address the threats of pollution. The greatest source of
domestic disputes is fighting over the thermostat; I expect this trend will
carry over to international climate disputes of the future...)  
  
[![](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-u_IfFa2OZEI/VsGJUCmog-I/AAAAAAAAAXQ/UiM6FWOYg58/s320/Newsweek1973RunningOutOfEverything.png)](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-u_IfFa2OZEI/VsGJUCmog-I/AAAAAAAAAXQ/UiM6FWOYg58/s1600/Newsweek1973RunningOutOfEverything.png)For
many of us in the developed world, a future of higher prices for energy and
other commodities does not seem like such big a deal as it once did: we
already have more physical goods than we know what to do with, and [cutting
back](http://www.theminimalists.com/minimalism/) to achieve more peace of mind
now seems to take and be worth more effort than accumulation. While the
better-off fractions of the developed world have by and large reached a level
of satisfaction in their consumption of the abundance of goods made possible
by the industrial revolutions, the poorer fractions and the developing world
have not.  
  
Nevertheless, during the Malthusian scares commodities did seem to grow much
more expensive and scarcer -- and not just a few commodities but commodities
in general.  Indeed, the prices of a broad range of industrial commodities
went substantially higher, often much faster than the general inflation rate
\-- a sure sign, according to traditional industrial economics, that
industrial supply was being outstripped by consumer demand -- that we were
getting approaching, often rapidly, Malthusian limits rather than moving
further away from them as has been the general trend since Malthus.  During
most of the years of the first and second scares raw material and food prices
skyrocketed, practically across the board. Why was this happening, if not the
predictions of Malthusians starting to come true?  Let's take a look at the
scares, and the economic histories surrounding them, to find out.  
  
**Prelude to the First Malthusian Scare**  
  
From ancient civilization to the late 1960s, civilization's money was
generally defined by, and either consisted of or was convertible to, standard
weights of precious metals. Even thousands of years before the invention of
coinage, most fines in the [earliest recorded code of
laws](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Code_of_Ur-Nammu) were defined and paid in
weights of silver.  While the role of precious metals in monetary affairs
declined throughout the 20th century, with many episodes of fiat currencies
untied to precious metals inflating and
[hyperinflating](http://www.comparegoldandsilverprices.com/news/economics-101/modern-
hyperinflation-56-cases-around-the-world/), under the post-World War II
Bretton Woods system United States and its allies up to 1968 had a [gold
window](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/London_Gold_Pool) whereby authorized
high rollers (among them most other governments) could still cash in their
dollars for gold at a promised official rate.  Under Bretton Woods most other
free world currencies were pegged to the dollar.  So you could cash in your
local currency for dollars, and (if you were an authorized high roller) your
dollars for gold, all at committed official prices.  
  
But Bretton Woods, depending on a single country to ultimately back the entire
free world's money, was not financially sustainable.  It established the U.S.
dollar as the free-world standard after World War II, when the the U.S. made
half the world's industrial goods and held over half of its financial
reserves. But the economies damaged by World War II quickly recovered, and
agricultural and industrial revolutions spread to the developing world where
economic growth greatly quickened.  While the U.S. economy in its own terms
was thriving,  the relative U.S. role in the world economy declined as those
of the rest of the world quickly rose from the ashes. By the mid-1960s the
U.S. held only 16% of the world's financial reserves, and even less than that
of its gold reserves.  Even though it promised to exchange dollars for gold on
demand, the U.S. Federal Reserve issued more notes, and its banks more broadly
issued more dollar credit, than could possibly be securely backed by its
diminishing gold reserves.  
  
Meanwhile, most academic and government economists scoffed at the gold
standard as a "barbarous relic" and held that world monetary conditions would
be improved if the U.S. stopped pretending that the dollar was pegged to gold.
By 1968 the U.S. was no longer willing to honor its commitment to deliver an
ounce of gold for $35.  The U.S., which since the time of Franklin Roosevelt
had banned the domestic private gold trade, now tried with futility to halt
overseas private trade by refusing to deal in gold with governments that
allowed private gold trade.  (In reality, this was less a serious attempt to
stifle overseas private gold trade than an attempt to close down the gold
window in a face-saving way).  The U.S. government forced the London Gold
Pool, the gold window mechanism operating between the major free world central
banks, to declare a "bank holiday", i.e. shut down its operations.  But of
course this didn't stop non-Americans from trading in gold; quite the
opposite: it signaled that the U.S. dollar, and all the currencies pegged to
the U.S. dollar, had radically changed in form, and might no longer be as
reliable as a store of value. The free-market price of gold soon rose well
above $35 official rate. The U.S. was by 1971 forced to officially float the
dollar (it had already been floating de facto for up to three years),
officially making the U.S. dollar a purely fiat currency.  The pegged
currencies followed suit, and Bretton Woods was dead.  
  
All this monetary obscurity matters for our Malthusian scares not just because
all the aforesaid commodity prices from then until now are quoted in major
fiat currencies, most usually in dollars, and these signals prices send about
industrial supply and demand can only be as reliable as the currencies those
prices are denominated in. Such a consideration could, with good statistics
based on good records, be reasonably dealt with by computing the "real",
inflation-adjusted prices of commodities.  But commodity prices proceeded to
skyrocket even in general-inflation-adjusted terms The dawn of the pure fiat,
floating currency regime caused far deeper forces to come into play.  
  
For in reality, post-gold-standard prices for industrial commodities are not
driven purely, or often even mostly, by industrial demand being met by
appropriate changes in material supply.  Instead, both supply and demand
curves have been warped by a new role for the major industrial commodities --
they are no longer purely commodities; the are in part also money.  In
particular, they have since the late 1960s been increasingly used as a liquid
store of value, easily tradeable for media of exchange (e.g. dollars), as an
alternative to and hedge for the new regime of floating rate currencies.  
  

[![](https://2.bp.blogspot.com/-qw_DlLMeK9c/VsGDcMbIE6I/AAAAAAAAAWk/UJlwRE807x8/s400/OilPriceChanges1947_2016.png)](https://2.bp.blogspot.com/-qw_DlLMeK9c/VsGDcMbIE6I/AAAAAAAAAWk/UJlwRE807x8/s1600/OilPriceChanges1947_2016.png)

[![](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-is0E_Rn2Ud0/VsGDoh_5wGI/AAAAAAAAAWo/b9Ox0QcU5Ps/s400/PhosphateVolatilityPrePostBrettonWoods.png)](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-is0E_Rn2Ud0/VsGDoh_5wGI/AAAAAAAAAWo/b9Ox0QcU5Ps/s1600/PhosphateVolatilityPrePostBrettonWoods.png)  
---  
 _  Noise in the signal: radical increase in volatility of two of the most _  
 _important geopolitical minerals, crude oil and phosphate, between the  _  
 _Bretton Woods   (1947-70) and floating rate (1970-present) eras._  
  
What does it mean to say a commodity is part money?  For this we need to turn
to economist [Carl Menger's
theory](http://is.muni.cz/el/1456/podzim2009/MPE_MOEK/um/8972262/menger1892.pdf)
of the origins of money.
[Menger](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carl_Menger)'s theory is less an
accurate account of how money did historically originate among humans (which
happened [long before](http://nakamotoinstitute.org/shelling-out/) the dawn of
the efficient commodity markets postulated by Menger), as a good theory and
reasonably accurate set of predictions about how a free barter market economy
does behave whenever it does arise.  According to Menger, in a world of
market-based barter, a very high cost (which economists would now call a
transaction cost) comes from having to keep track of on the order of N^2
prices for the N goods, and the lack of coincidence of mutual wants between
the holders of any two particular such commodities.  
  
For this reason market participants start spontaneously treating some goods as
_intermediate commodities.   _Intermediate commodities are held, not to
consume them, but to store value until the next opportunity for exchange comes
along.  The intermediate commodity's price increases substantially from what
it was when it was just demanded for its consumption: it obtains a price
premium for its use as a store of value immune from the changing values of
currency or currency-denominated assets the holder of the intermediate
commodity would have otherwise held.  This price premium waxes and wanes with
the weighted changes in inflation expectations of the world's main traded
currencies.  
  
Many commodities might be used this way: and every commodity that is used in
this way becomes, in part, money.  It is no longer just an good whose supply
is driven by purely by the costs of production (since producers may choose to
withhold production rather than sell for a currency whose inflation
expectations have just increased, or may choose to increase production beyond
the needs of immediate demand when inflation expectations have decreased), or
whose demand is driven purely by desires or needs for its consumption (since
some of the demand -- the vast majority of the demand in the case of gold and
silver -- is now for its use as a store of value). It is an intermediate
commodity, [partial
money](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com.br/2008/03/monetary-value-of-liquid-
commodities.html).  
  
When the primary use of the commodity money is as a medium of exchange, for
example the cigarettes used as money in some wartime prisons, strong network
effects usually exist to cause the market to converge on one or a few
standards -- historically, usually gold and silver.  These [undergo
](http://blogs.ft.com/maverecon/2009/11/gold-a-six-thousand-year-old-bubble/)a
["bubble that does not pop"](http://unqualified-
reservations.blogspot.com/2009/12/gold-and-central-banks-game-theory.html).
But the other intermediate commodities, the commodities don't make it all the
way to being dominant and nearly pure money, are bubbles that can and do pop.  
  
When the primary use of commodity money is, however, a store of value, a store
of value that can be readily exchanged when needed for the actual medium of
exchange, there is almost no network effect.  Any commodity that can be stored
and so traded can be used as store of value that will render the owner immune
from the perceived or actual risks of holding a floating currency. This
storage could occur in the form of a paper or digital future, or as the actual
commodity in the warehouse, or even as a readily extractable mineral such as
oil still in the ground.  
  
Since the end of Bretton Woods, the major industrial commodities, and
especially the major geopolitical commodities such as oil and phosphates, have
become Mengerian.  They are no longer purely industrial commodities.  They are
also stores of value, places to put wealth in between obtaining money and
spending it, that provide an alternative for those who wish to diversify away
from, for various reasons, holding currency or assets such as bonds and
derivatives that are defined by or correlated to the health of currencies.  In
the face of increasing inflation expectations, stockpiling of commodities also
decreases the risk that further economic growth that nations may be expecting
or planning for in their economies could only come at the costs of even
purchasing the needed inputs at even higher prices in the future (e.g. China
in the 2000s). Stockpiling of commodities is also a general strategy whenever
international trust erode and leaders start thinking of potential risks that
trade will be slowed or embargoed.  
  
There are other securities that can store and even grow value -- stocks,
bonds, real estate.  In many ways all these are better stores of value than
commodities.  However for a major financial and political power, they have
drawbacks.  First, they are trust-based -- you are trusting somebody (often a
foreigner) to pay the coupons or dividends.  In the case of real estate, it
depends on the vagaries of local economic activity and politics. Commodities,
especially commodities a government can physically control, are far more
trust-minimized.  The U.S. can sanction Russia by freezing the assets of its
national held in paper or digital form in the U.S., but it cannot take the oil
from Russia's wells or stop it from drilling, pumping, and selling it to e.g.
Europe.  Finally, commodities in most of their forms, especially as futures,
are readily exchanged for pure money such as dollars. Since the theme of this
paper is Malthusian resources, we shall focus on the waxing and waning of the
intermediateness of commodities, and in particular the geolitical commodities
oil and phosphate rock.  
  
Thus industrial commodities, and especially minerals important to geopolitics
like crude oil and phosphate, serve at least three major purposes in the post
Bretton Woods world beyond just industrial or agricultural consumption:  
  
(a) a hedge against increases in expected inflation in floating rate
currencies, or greater uncertainties about same,  
  
(b) for governments, protection against coercive economic sanctions by foreign
governments, and  
  
(c) for militarily strong countries, a form of wealth relatively immune from
foreign attack in time of war  
  
We will see all these factors at play during the first and second Malthusian
scares.  
  
  
 **The First Malthusian Scare**  
  
[![](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-fg55XHA9goU/VsJPXWVMu7I/AAAAAAAAAYg/DlN6W8X4FTk/s320/OilGold1970s_Hammes.png)](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-fg55XHA9goU/VsJPXWVMu7I/AAAAAAAAAYg/DlN6W8X4FTk/s1600/OilGold1970s_Hammes.png)  
---  
  
 _Oil "chasing the tail of gold"  _  
 _during the 1970s.
([Source](http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=388283))_  
  
  
As described above, the Bretton Woods era ended between 1968 and 1971, leading
to the purely floating rate regime that has prevailed from 1971 to today. Free
trade in gold, which had been banned under Franklin Roosevelt, was returned to
the U.S.  
  
Shortly thereafter, in 1973-4, an event that many economists have deemed an
"exogenous shock", and even a main cause of the dramatic oil price rises of
the 1970s, occurred on the world stage: the Arab oil embargo of Britain and
the U.S. in response to their intervention on behalf of Israel in the 1973 Yom
Kippur War.  Around the same time OPEC more than doubled the dollar prices it
charged for its oil.  It is common but highly inaccurate to call OPEC a
"monopoly cartel" at that time -- it accounted for only about 3% of U.S. oil
consumption in 1967 and still only 6.7% at the end of 1973.  It had increased
its pricing power from negligible to slight; it could hardly have more than
doubled the price of oil on its own had not other oil-producing companies and
countries been of similar mind.  
  
[![](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-7IDQE3gOmNk/VsJK5xjQoII/AAAAAAAAAYU/r8_teS766eg/s320/OilPricesSuezVsArabOilCrisis.png)](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-7IDQE3gOmNk/VsJK5xjQoII/AAAAAAAAAYU/r8_teS766eg/s1600/OilPricesSuezVsArabOilCrisis.png)  
---  
  
 _One dog didn't bark: oil prices around the times of the  _  
 _Suez crisis (1956-7), in which Europe lost control of over  _  
 _half its oil supply, and the Arab Crisis (73-74), involving a  _  
 _temporary embargo that was easy to get around  _  
 _by trading through cutout countries._  
By sharp contrast, the Suez Crisis of 1956-7, which produced a much more
dramatic and longer-lasting impact on the world's oil supply chains -- Europe
suddenly lost military control over more than half of the oil it consumed to a
recently independent and hostile Egypt, never to gain it back -- was followed
by a far smaller and more ephemeral percentage increase in oil prices.  
  
Due to the increased inflation expectations, oil producers conserved on
pumping, despite rising prices and oil consumers stockpiled despite the rising
prices of funding those purchases. The reverse would happen throughout the
decreases in inflation expectations and resulting long decline in commodity
prices during most of the 1980s and 1990s.  Oil producers kept pumping beyond
the needs of the industrial market to hasten the drawdown of their
depreciating reservoirs.  
  
[![](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-HzRYkPc3dHw/VsAYPpfmuJI/AAAAAAAAAWA/sEu9rs0j5yw/s320/Inflation1970s.png)](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-HzRYkPc3dHw/VsAYPpfmuJI/AAAAAAAAAWA/sEu9rs0j5yw/s1600/Inflation1970s.png)  
---  
  
 _What the voter saw: U.S. consumer  _  
 _price index 1973-81._  
But during the first Malthusian scare, U.S. and European entities began
stockpiling oil and other strategic commodities. For example U.S. oil imports
from the Middle East, which had been only about 3% of consumption in 1967 when
relations were friendly, had increased to 6.7% by 1973 even though relations
had become hostile. and nominal prices of that oil had risen. Meanwhile U.S.
oil producers were pumping less oil, choosing to keep relatively more of it in
the ground rather than sell it for cheapening dollars.  
  
  
  
 **The Second Malthusian Scare  **  
  

[![](https://2.bp.blogspot.com/-uCFvh7tGNOI/VsGHYzjYGRI/AAAAAAAAAXA/rAVKKxl0UU8/s320/WorldFertilizerPricesSoar2007.png)](https://2.bp.blogspot.com/-uCFvh7tGNOI/VsGHYzjYGRI/AAAAAAAAAXA/rAVKKxl0UU8/s1600/WorldFertilizerPricesSoar2007.png)As
in the 1970s, the commodity rise during the second Malthusian scare of roughly
2004-14 was often sharp and concurrently effected the vast majority of
commodities. After substantial advances in both real estate and commodity
prices the previous several years, during 2007 central banks cut rates and
raise money supplies to fight collapsing real estate prices. These efforts
fueled sharp increases in [inflation
expectations](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/07/inflation-expectations-
gold-and-oil.html). Nominal and CPI-adjusted prices of fossil fuels, precious
metals, industrial metals, lumber, fibers, fertilizers, grains, oilseeds,
dairy, and livestock all skyrocketed during 2007, hitting record highs in
nominal prices.  The market’s [endless search
](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/06/commodity-hysteria-
overview.html)for stores of value independent of the vagaries of fiat
currencies had switched from real estate on which easy loans were defaulting
to commodities that could be held more securely.  This time the most
(in)famous stockpiler was China, planning for the rapid economic growth it
expected in the decades ahead.  
  

[![](https://3.bp.blogspot.com/-p9O8InxRaeI/VsGHesHDYFI/AAAAAAAAAXE/rKKVb0Obu50/s320/FertilizerPrices1960_2009_Nominal.png)](https://3.bp.blogspot.com/-p9O8InxRaeI/VsGHesHDYFI/AAAAAAAAAXE/rKKVb0Obu50/s1600/FertilizerPrices1960_2009_Nominal.png)

Also as in the 1970s, the individual components of this broad-range trend were
attributed to a stupendous variety of idiosyncratic causes -- the co-
occurrence of which all driving prices in the same direction at the same time
was astronomically improbable. The only reasonable attribution would be to
related common causes – which, given that there had been no sudden worldwide
industrial boom, had to have been monetary causes.  
  
Warnings about peak oil, peak phosphorous, etc. issued from all the major
media outlets and science journals.  In Silicon Valley, a boom in "green
technology" startups and investments ensued -- resulting later in mostly
bankrupt companies.

  
As I [wrote](http://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2008/04/hoarding-and-
speculation-of-commodities.html) at the time:  

>
> [![](https://3.bp.blogspot.com/-kGOrUp3rWqo/VsGJ3uYYIbI/AAAAAAAAAXU/l0pRN4y2eUg/s320/PhosphateFoodPrices1990_2013.png)](https://3.bp.blogspot.com/-kGOrUp3rWqo/VsGJ3uYYIbI/AAAAAAAAAXU/l0pRN4y2eUg/s1600/PhosphateFoodPrices1990_2013.png)It
> is a gross violation of Occam's Razor to attribute the recent very broad-
> based run-up in dollar commodity prices primarily to the plethora of
> disparate causes to which they have been attributed: "peak oil", the war in
> Iraq, ethanol subsidies displacing food, and so on. Rises in industrial
> demand, increases in the costs of transporting commodities due to high oil
> prices, and so on explain only a small fraction of the rise in other
> commodity prices, and do not explain at all why precious metal prices have
> increased alongside those of other commodities. Occam's Razor points us, as
> it did to wise investors and economists in the 1970s, to the one kind of
> commodity all these other commodities have in common: the currencies they
> are priced in...

>
> [![](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-ccugPw5IOiU/VsGT4hl8RqI/AAAAAAAAAYE/RWb3zpY-9TY/s320/SecondMalthusianScare_OilPhosphorousCrudePrices.png)](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-ccugPw5IOiU/VsGT4hl8RqI/AAAAAAAAAYE/RWb3zpY-9TY/s1600/SecondMalthusianScare_OilPhosphorousCrudePrices.png)...demand
> for the oft-dreaded but ill-understood "hoarding" and "speculation", that is
> storing extra commodities (often off-the-books, or at least not in the
> officially measured warehouses) and the purchase of extra commodity futures
> and other commodity derivatives to hedge transactions based on government
> currencies, will remain strong as long as the Federal Reserve continues to
> inflate the dollar supply, and as long as many developing countries continue
> to link their currencies to this dollar. Commodity prices in dollars will
> level off, and then move back down close to historical trends based largely
> on just industrial consumption, if or when the Fed stops increasing the
> supply of dollars faster than the demand for dollars.

As it transpired, neither the Malthusian worries nor, as of this writing, the
inflation expectations proved justified.  The run-up in oil helped fund the
fracking revolution, a technology which defied peak oil theory:  
  
[![](https://2.bp.blogspot.com/-qu4OUpl8A5Q/VsGLZlAs6gI/AAAAAAAAAXk/MNm2CRHe5cs/s320/HubbertPeakOil_PermanentOilCrisis.png)](https://2.bp.blogspot.com/-qu4OUpl8A5Q/VsGLZlAs6gI/AAAAAAAAAXk/MNm2CRHe5cs/s1600/HubbertPeakOil_PermanentOilCrisis.png)  
---  
  
 _Theory: peak oil diagram after Hubbert.   Alleged to _  
 _apply at all scales not just to individual wells._  
  
[![](https://3.bp.blogspot.com/-WudvGeidbug/VsGM4ZC_veI/AAAAAAAAAXw/-6WZ08PJ8_g/s320/USOilProduction1920_2015.jpg)](https://3.bp.blogspot.com/-WudvGeidbug/VsGM4ZC_veI/AAAAAAAAAXw/-6WZ08PJ8_g/s1600/USOilProduction1920_2015.jpg)  
---  
  
 _Reality: not as simple as theory_  
  
Oil thus demonstrated itself as a poorer monetary substitute than gold: being
a much more novel commodity than gold, its production is subject to
substantially more likelihood of technological invention and geological
discovery.  __  
[![](https://2.bp.blogspot.com/-n6AgNdfjHxg/VsAczhvJxWI/AAAAAAAAAWM/20EDDqaWUE4/s320/GoldOilRatio1865_2015.jpg_large.jpeg)](https://2.bp.blogspot.com/-n6AgNdfjHxg/VsAczhvJxWI/AAAAAAAAAWM/20EDDqaWUE4/s1600/GoldOilRatio1865_2015.jpg_large.jpeg)  
---  
  
_Fracking in one diagram_  
  
This possibility, which had not been sufficiently priced into oil before
fracking, makes oil supply less reliably scarce than that of gold, rendering
it less useful as a store of value, reducing the monetary premium of the oil
price over oil as it would be priced if it were just an industrial commodity.
Secondly, of course, is the direct effect of fracking on the supply curve in
lowering oil prices.  The effects of the fracking revolution are amplified
because more than just the Econ-101 supply curve shift is reducing oil prices
due to fracking: oil's monetary premium is being eroded at the same time. Oil
had been a monetary bubble which is now bursting.  
  
If you are Saudi Arabia or Iraq sitting on large reservoirs of easily
extracted oi, your alternative to treating oil as a store of value, if you
still don't trust the Western powers, is to pump even more and trade the
proceeds for gold (and also pay off some foolishly acquired debts) -- which is
what we now see happening. Thus, paradoxically (to those who analyze oil as no
more than an industrial commodity) oil producing countries pump _more_ oil
despite much lower oil prices. They are selling oil from their "oil warehouse"
below the sands of the Middle East in exchange for gold, which due to the
fracking revolution has reasserted its superiority as a trust-minimized
currency over oil. If "money is the bubble that doesn't pop", partial money,
i.e. Mengerian intermediate commodities, create bubbles that sometimes do pop,
as the desirability of various commodities for their monetary properties,
especially their value as a store of value relatively immune from political
interdiction, waxes and wanes.  
  
  
[![](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-F3Ab9B6_v8M/VsGF-
dOLynI/AAAAAAAAAW4/gPmcFQHwHfo/s320/RealCRBCommodityIndex.png)](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-F3Ab9B6_v8M/VsGF-
dOLynI/AAAAAAAAAW4/gPmcFQHwHfo/s1600/RealCRBCommodityIndex.png)  
---  
  
 _As much good news as bad: the two Malthusian scares  _  
 _sandwich an era when inflation-commodity prices fell by about the same  _  
 _amount that they rose during the two scares combined. (And they have  _  
 _fallen further since 2010). The explanation of "tight money" vs. "easy  _  
 _money" is pertinent but oversimplified, as one would expect an  _  
 _attempt to explain a theory in chart labels to be..._  
  
 **Conclusion**  
  
During the Bretton Woods era the U.S. dollar, pegged to gold at $35 an ounce,
served the entire free world as a common and reliable standard of value.  The
transition from Bretton Woods to floating rates left the world with no common
and reliable standard of value by which to guarantee future real returns on
contracts or investments.  As a result the most commonly traded commodities,
and especially geopolitical commodities such as oil and phosphates, became
Mengerian intermediate commodities, with a price premium as a store of value
that waxed and waned with the weighted expected inflation among the world's
various floating currencies. As a result, the prices of these commodities are
much more volatile since 1970 than they were during the Bretton Woods era.
Epochs of increasing inflation expectations have led to rapid, broad-based
commodity price rises, where the market gives out false signals of scarcity,
leading to Malthusian anxieties and panics that we face a future of
diminishing natural resources. This in turn has fueled a major and sustainable
growth in green ideology since the 1960s.  
  
It's no longer debatable that commodity supplies in general pose few limits to
long-term industrial growth, nor, except in the special case of phosphates,
any significant limits that cannot eventually be innovated past by
substituting newer more abundant materials for scarcer older ones.  To obtain
all the commodities we have consumed in history has involved barely scratching
he surface of one planet. Scratching out somewhat more each upcoming decade
and century into the foreseeable future is, in terms of that supply, by and
large sustainable. A far more debatable proposition is to how much
environmental impacts will or should limit industrial growth -- for example,
what is or should be our ability to continue pumping more carbon dioxide into
the atmosphere? That is a debate this paper shall leave for another day.  
  
  

