[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Unveiling the teams in our second Base Camp cohort

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Unveiling the teams in our second Base Camp cohort

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/ov_matt-150x150.jpg)

March 2020

Posted by

Matt Law

Board Member

At Outlier Ventures Matt partners with talented founders building the next
generation of internet services working across their investing thesis of the
Convergence of emerging technology with decentralised & distributed computing,
AI, and IoT. Matt is in the investment committee at the firm, and launched
their deep tech accelerator program. Prior to that Matt worked for many years
in marketing, branding and product development, growing a number of
independent companies to scale and profitability....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1278)

Launched in 2019, Base Camp is a unique program to work with the most exciting
early stage projects in the Convergence space. The program combines the
collected learnings from five years of incubating early stage teams, and we
have condensed 5 years of learning into an on-premise 3 month accelerator to
support pre-seed stage startups.

Every project needs a different blend of services at different times depending
on stage of development and internal capacities and competencies. We recognise
that founders are individuals and each team is unique - therefore we provide
them with a framework to succeed that tailors content and mentorship to them
to take their company from zero to one.

Posted by Matt Law - March 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/ov_matt-150x150.jpg)

March 2020

Posted by

Matt Law

Board Member

At Outlier Ventures Matt partners with talented founders building the next
generation of internet services working across their investing thesis of the
Convergence of emerging technology with decentralised & distributed computing,
AI, and IoT. Matt is in the investment committee at the firm, and launched
their deep tech accelerator program. Prior to that Matt worked for many years
in marketing, branding and product development, growing a number of
independent companies to scale and profitability....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1278)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/asm-and-ov-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-asm/) [Why we
invested in Altered State Machine (ASM)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-
invested-in-asm/)

April 2022  
Jamie Burke

[ ![OutlierVenturesInvestsinLumerin](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/03/why-we-invested-in-lumerin-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-lumerin/) [Why
we invested in Lumerin](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-
lumerin/)

March 2022  
Jamie Burke

![Unveiling the teams in our second Base Camp cohort Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/03/Screenshot-2020-03-02-at-12.41.15-1024x383.png)

Our second cohort has a range of decentralised solutions across fintech,
identity, insurance, data analytics, networking and data analytics. What draws
them together is they are focused on solving real world problems today, both
within the crypto space, and in broader industry. We are terming this theme
“web 2.5”. In the journey towards web 3.0, there is a reciprocal relationship
between infrastructure development and applications. With the past few years
focus on protocol innovation, the time is now to incubate credible teams to
deliver real world usage.

Over the coming weeks we will be working closely with the teams on pitch,
product and customer adoption. Read on for a preview of the businesses and
teams, and get in touch if you would like to know more.

# ![Unveiling the teams in our second Base Camp cohort Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/03/Screenshot-2020-03-03-at-15.04.09-300x78.png)

Biconomy: Scalable Relayer Infrastructure for Blockchain Transactions

<http://biconomy.io>

**Problem**

In the Internet’s early days, companies like Shopify could not have achieved
the scale they did in the 2010s. Building required spending money on servers
and obtaining money licenses in major jurisdiction across the world.

The lack of middleware to access infrastructure is something the next
generation of web startups like DeFi, log-in, gaming and other on-chain
applications are struggling with now. The current workflow requires up to **22
steps** before the user can fully onboard. This dramatically reduces
engagement for end users.

**Solution**

**Making crypto payments easy for dApp developers and users.**

Biconomy is building payment middleware for decentralised applications.
Developers can seamlessly connect to a relayer network infrastructure. This
brings down the 22 step process to develop and use a decentralised application
to just a few steps. Biconomy provides a network of relayers accessible via
APIs or a client side javascript SDK. The transactions are free for the end
users and only charge is to the developer on a monthly basis with that fee
being treated as user acquisition cost. Developers can limit the meta
transaction usage at application level, API level and user level to avoid
abuse of their network. The transaction data cannot be altered by anybody
including Biconomy as user signature is encrypted (EIP712).



# ![Unveiling the teams in our second Base Camp cohort Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/03/Screenshot-2020-03-03-at-15.04.15-300x75.png)

Bond180: Data-Driven Solutions for Debt Markets

[Bond180.com](http://bond180.com)

**Problem**

Bond180 recognises Investment returns are at record lows, so the average cost
of 2% per year to manage and administer portfolios is no longer acceptable.
The market participants are being forced to innovate as banks can no longer
support antiquated markets effectively.

Financial markets rely on trust and transparency provided by middlemen,
however there is a clear lack of incentive alignment. We want to fix these
fundamental problems through the use of data to provide clarity, DLT to enable
trust, and disintermediation to ensure incentive alignment.

**Solution**

**Working towards a more efficient debt issuance market.**

Bond180 seeks to revolutionise the way debt is issued. By focusing on data
that informs decision makers within investment businesses, a sophisticated
landscape of demand for assets is created. Through machine-learning, capital
is connected with those in need in a dynamic, efficient way to create the
future state of financial markets. Bond180 creates a synthetic dataset
representing latent unfulfilled demand for debt assets to encourage platform
adoption. Initial focus is on alternative or private credit, a high growth
segment within the asset management industry.

Bond180 expects to save 80% of the costs embedded in financial markets through
our solution, with the savings shared between capital raisers and investors.
In the context of the £trillion UK debt market, this represents a potential
£16 billion cost saving per annum.



# ![Unveiling the teams in our second Base Camp cohort Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/03/Screenshot-2020-03-03-at-15.04.22-300x90.png)

Crucible: Technology for the open metaverse

[Crucible.network](http://crucible.network)

**Problem**

Non-digitised identity has proven unfit for the digital world. One of the most
pronounced examples is the online gaming industry which has been a growing
target for cyber criminals. They are posing as gamers infiltrating
communities, stealing personal information as well as valuable in-game items.
This is putting not just adults but mostly children under risk.

**Solution**

**Improving in-game security through digital identity.**

Crucible is creating a new digital identity model to improve authentication
for economic avatars in gaming and mixed reality. The suit of browser
extensions, mobile app and plugins for game engines and servers allow an Self-
Sovereign Identity (SSI) to be easily used to upgrade a web application, video
game, virtual world or IoT network to full SSI style verification including no
passwords, cryptographically verifiable identity and uniquely encrypted
traffic. Crucible is removing the development effort required to digitise and
link offline and online identity.



# ![Unveiling the teams in our second Base Camp cohort Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/03/Screenshot-2020-03-03-at-15.04.28-300x61.png)

Fardoe: Intelligent insurance ecosystem

[Fardoesoftware.co.uk](https://www.fardoesoftware.co.uk/)

**Problem**

There is an increasingly wide array of data sources available. Insurance
companies risk falling behind as it is hard for them to coordinate the
different sources and process the data on a timely and meaningful basis.
Inefficient processes alongside ever growing pressure for companies to improve
margins in Insurance are a recipe for disaster. There can often be bottlenecks
in processing data, such as at popular renewal times, for example in reviewing
contracts or checking compliance, which can mean lost or sub-optimal business
and a higher risk of errors. As a result, many insurance companies end up
paying £1m+ license fees to risk management companies affecting their bottom
line.

**Solution**

Fardoe is developing an intelligent middleware enabling companies to connect
to all of their data sources (internal and external) and to process and
analyse it through one easy touchpoint with formats that are already familiar.
The end goal is to improve internal workflows and processes without
compromising on security. Fardoe offers a range of integrated modules such as
Contract Wording Reviews and Exposure Management.



# ![Unveiling the teams in our second Base Camp cohort Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/03/Screenshot-2020-03-03-at-15.04.36-300x71.png)

Nyctale: Blockchain analytics tools for crypto-assets

[Nyctale.io](https://nyctale.io/)

**Problem**

Readability of blockchain transactions is poor. The transactional networks are
complex to analyze and require a computing intensive infrastructure coupled
with advanced data science algorithms. The lack of interpretation standards
adds up an additional layer of complexity as multiple providers are used and
each have their way of operation. As a result regulators and businesses don’t
have the access to the necessary tools to monitor those networks.

**Solution**

Nyctale develops advanced analytics tools processing blockchain transactions.
The product includes advanced tools to analyse usages, measure value, and
control money flows on these new transactional systems. Nyctale is targeting
dApp providers looking to increase the performance and efficiency of their
developments with rigorous impact evaluation approaches.

Developers can track the evolution of customers’ behaviours caused by everyday
business activities like marketing campaigns, products release, secondary
markets activity and more.



# ![Unveiling the teams in our second Base Camp cohort Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/03/Screenshot-2020-03-03-at-15.04.42-300x83.png)

Primeflow: Unlock the power of your network, collaborate at scale

<https://www.primeflow.com/>

**Problem**

Conventional channels for both recruiting are overcrowded and have a
horrendous signal-to-noise ratio. There is clearly a need for curation of
viable options and distinguishing spam from quality leads. Referral programs
are consistently among the most successful hiring channels, however, they
often don’t reach the extended network of the company.

**Solution**

PrimeFlow enables private and scalable networks of scouts for talent and
sales. The product is a web application for external referrals on a feature-
level. It is built for external referrals and can handle chains of referrals,
with automated tracking and payments for the successful scouts. The reputation
system is key as it allows to curate leads and determine the
success/importance of each scout in the network. It is based on sophisticated
agent-based simulations, ensuring the quality of leads and disincentivizing
spam. All previous track record and behaviour of all actors in the system is
captured by a reputation score, which is then used to curate competing
suggestions. Primeflow is built for cross-vertical use-cases from day 1.





# ![Unveiling the teams in our second Base Camp cohort Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/03/Screenshot-2020-03-03-at-15.04.48-300x105.png)

Zinc: Automated reference checking. Hire the Best People – Faster‎

<https://zinc.work/>

**Problem**

Hiring & onboarding staff is a lengthy, frustrating and costly process. Hiring
processes for technical roles take on average 3 months, background checking
takes another 28 days and it takes employees up to 6 months to reach break
even point where they are bringing more value to companies than they expend.

40% of the companies approaching Zinc are working with out-of-date incumbent
background checking providers. Another 60% of companies are doing checks
manually or none at all.

**Solution**

Zinc is improving the hiring process by building automated referencing and
background checking tools that put the candidates in control of their data,
making the checks re-usable and offer companies data-driven candidate
insights. The automated referencing & background checking tools bring
transparency to the process. The checks can be collected at the click of a
button. Then through algorithmic data analysis, Zinc gives clear candidate
insights. Zinc brings onboarding processes down from months to days.



_**Please note:** The information referenced above is sourced from the above
named companies and is based on material that Outlier Ventures Operations
Limited (“Outlier”) believes to be reliable. Outlier does not make any
representation or warranty, expressed or implied as to the accuracy. Outlier
has not reviewed any links including the above provided websites and does not
take any responsibility for the content on these pages. Outlier Ventures
Operations Limited is an appointed representative of Sapia Partners LLP which
is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority._



Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

