[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![Unveiling
AKASHA](/static/b7b004b527df13a48ebeb4383b820ddc/2a43b/Censorship2.jpg)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

## Unveiling AKASHA

By [Mihai Alisie](/blog/author/mihai-alisie/)

·

May 03, 2016

For the past year we have worked on [AKASHA](https://akasha.world/), a next-
generation social media network powered by [Ethereum](https://ethereum.org/)
and the [Inter-Planetary File System](https://ipfs.io/). Today, May 3rd, we
celebrate [World Press Freedom
Day](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Press_Freedom_Day) by unveiling our
project to the world at large and opening the signups for the alpha release.

### Freedom of expression mayday

> "Freedom of expression is the matrix, the indispensable condition, of nearly
> every other form of freedom." \--- Benjamin Cardozo

[ ![Gandhi's words](/static/67843a84840522c3489124c768f37144/1c72d/Gandhi.jpg)
](/static/67843a84840522c3489124c768f37144/ed9a5/Gandhi.jpg)

Before delving into the project itself I would like to explain the **why**
behind it and **what** we are aiming to achieve.

[Ever since I joined Vitalik in the Ethereum
project](https://blog.ethereum.org/2015/03/14/ethereum-the-first-year/) as co-
founder in late 2013, [I've dreamed](https://blog.ethereum.org/2014/07/14/the-
ethereum-project/) about the ways Ethereum could be used to solve some of the
biggest issues we face as a civilization.

However, it wasn't until [early 2015](https://akasha.world/#roadmap) when I
first realized that we are about to create the missing puzzle piece that will
enable us to tackle two of the most important challenges we face today as a
modern information-based society: freedom of expression and creative
perpetuity.

A quick search with the keyword "censorship" on your favorite search engine
will return a number of results, most of them involving social networks with
hundreds of millions and even billions of active users.

But censorship is not something new that came with the Internet. It is an old
creature of the mind that has existed for millennia, stigmatizing in numerous
ways humanity's collective memory.

From libraries destroyed, to burned people and books, we have witnessed as a
society the atrocities born from powers exercising censorship for their own
interests, be it for more power, religion, money or population control.

All in all, [history has taught
us](http://www.beaconforfreedom.org/liste.html?tid=415&art_id=475) that when
censorship shows its ugly face it usually isn't in the best interest of
society and people at large. On the contrary. Now, with all the horrible
things that have happened you might think that we would learn from the
mistakes we've made and avoid making them again.

Sadly, that is not the case: The situation we are currently in, when it comes
to freedom of expression, is one of the most precarious we have ever faced as
a society.

We are living in an [information-based
society](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_society) that has
outsourced its freedom of expression and collective memory to corporations
that don't always have our best interests at heart.

That being said, I am not implying that there's necessarily some sort of evil
agenda at play here, but we have seen numerous times how established companies
[have to comply](http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2016/03/03/do-not-
overkill-report-sheds-new-light-on-chinese-censorship/) with certain requests
if they want to stay in business.

It just so happens that some of those requests involve censorship, and the
root problem here is the information architecture used. This centralized
architecture enables the companies to honor such obnoxious requests in the
first place.

There is a lot of controversy when it comes to censorship and freedom of
expression in general, but we should remember that even if we're talking about
modern mediums of information, the problem of censorship is older than
democracy itself.

Censorship has outlived monarchies, tyrannies, and oligarchies, evolving into
today's abomination with new superpowers thanks to the centralized information
architecture deployed by mainstream publishing platforms. There is the ability
to [instantly delete anything](https://newrepublic.com/article/113045/free-
speech-internet-silicon-valley-making-rules) from the shared collective memory
with a simple command line.

Burning people, books and libraries is one way of doing things, but the
current reach and implications of censorship when talking about [billions of
people](http://www.internetlivestats.com/internet-users/) and [millions of
petabytes](http://www.live-counter.com/how-big-is-the-internet/) are mind-
boggling.

This leads to another serious problem stemming from the centralized
architecture: the incredibly short life of information on the Internet.
According to Internet Archive, the average life of a website on the Internet
is [about 100 days](https://blogs.loc.gov/digitalpreservation/2011/11/the-
average-lifespan-of-a-webpage/). That is nothing more than a blip when looking
at a time frame of decades.

The next time you stumble upon a [404
page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_404) remember that it is a small
tragedy in itself. It is almost as if our collective mind has lost a piece of
its memory, sometimes _forever_.

We are basically living in an information age plagued by arbitrary censorship
and digital amnesia, affecting every Internet user.

**What would happen if there was no server to delete information from and
instead the content would live forever on a decentralized network serving data
through a fractal of nodes?**

**We 're about to find out.**

### Pioneering Web 3.0 publishing

> "There are many things that seem impossible only so long as one does not
> attempt them." \-- André Gide

[ ![Pioneering Web 3
Publishing](/static/51b0816a828c09f9a5dc888a63404251/1c72d/Nasa-moon.jpg)
](/static/51b0816a828c09f9a5dc888a63404251/3acf0/Nasa-moon.jpg)

Probably one of the most valuable things we have as a
[team](https://akasha.world/#team) is the [hacker
mindset](http://blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2014/01/16/hacking-is-
a-mindset-not-a-skillset/) allowing us to look beyond blocks and
disappointments, seeing them instead as interesting challenges that, if
solved, can **really make a difference**.

We began developing the AKASHA prototype back in 2015 using
[Meteor](https://www.meteor.com/) and it was quite an interesting (and at
times frustrating) journey; there are no "right" or "wrong" ways of doing
things since we are navigating in deep uncharted territories.

This is how, by the end of 2015, we started to understand that Meteor is great
for many things but not for what we needed, especially as it started to
undergo [fundamental architectural
changes](http://guide.meteor.com/v1.3/1.3-migration.html). It was almost like
trying to build a card castle on top of moving sands.

However, the prototyping stage offered us invaluable insights into what to do
and what not to do in some regards while also giving us a general idea on how
we should approach the development of the "real" application.

After a few weeks of intense research we found a satisfying stack for building
a minimum viable product (MVP). Besides Ethereum and IPFS, our tech stack is
composed of [Electron](https://electron.atom.io/),
[React](https://facebook.github.io/react/) with [Redux](http://redux.js.org/),
and [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/).

Along the way we also began to better understand the possibilities opened by
AKASHA. More than a social media platform, we're basically building the social
fabric for the nascent etherweb.

From [collaborative
journalism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collaborative_journalism) to social
crowdfunding, from reusable
[annotations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_annotation) to social wikis,
we see a fractal of opportunities opening in front of us.

It is very challenging to stay focused when so many "shiny things" tend to
mesmerize your mind but we took a decision to start with blogging as the
building block for what's to follow.

And so we began working on a decentralized social blogging network as our MVP,
with the goal of creating in the process a product that will empower people
from around the world with **unfettered freedom of expression.**

**This is where we make our stand.**

**We can do things better now, and we will.**

**We have to.**

**Humanity needs a better[home of Mind](https://www.eff.org/cyberspace-
independence).**

### Today is when it all begins

> "A dream you dream alone is only a dream. A dream you can dream together is
> reality." \--- Yoko Ono

[ ![Today, May 3rd](/static/bb9fab9fb192eea58eb2ad8eaf5ad997/1c72d/Today-
May3.jpg) ](/static/bb9fab9fb192eea58eb2ad8eaf5ad997/d9c39/Today-May3.jpg)

In an article titled ["Locking the Web Open, a Call for a Distributed
Web"](https://blog.archive.org/2015/02/11/locking-the-web-open-a-call-for-a-
distributed-web/) the [Internet Archive](https://archive.org/) founder says
the following:

> _Freedom of expression, privacy, and universal access to all knowledge
> should all be baked into the code. But right now, those values are not
> embedded in they way the Web works._

...

> _Public key encryption is now legal, so we can use it for purposes of
> authentication and privacy. And we have Block Chain technology that enables
> the Bitcoin community to have a global database with no central point of
> control._

> _I 've seen each of these pieces work independently, but never pulled
> together into a new Web. That is what I am challenging us to do: funders,
> visionaries, coders, and activists-- this can be a Big Deal, and it's not
> being done yet!_

[Brewster Kahle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brewster_Kahle) is basically
describing the emergent Web3 made possible by Ethereum, and AKASHA is going to
be one of the first decentralized applications giving users a glimpse at what
the future of this new web might look like.

That being said, [Ethereum](https://ethereum.org/) _is not the solution to
everything_ but _it is definitely an important part of a potential solution_.
The same can be said about the [Inter-Planetary File System](https://ipfs.io/)
and the rest of our technology stack.

But that is not the point in the first place --- **the point is to leverage
existing technologies and build a better web.**

With Ethereum we **remove the need for servers** , avoiding from design stage
all the problems associated with censorship. With IPFS and its permanent web
infrastructure we **ensure the access to information through a planetary-scale
information network without central points of failure and bottlenecks**.

This is how AKASHA makes possible a new paradigm for Internet publishing and a
new model that eliminates from the design stage some of the biggest problems
we've encountered on the web for the past 20 years.

**We are now approaching the alpha stage and we need brave users and
developers to participate in this historic release.** We expect to gradually
start sending the alpha invites for Linux, MacOS and Windows in the coming
weeks.

Today we are calling everyone that resonates with this project and what it
stands for to join us in the quest for a better web. A web where freedom of
expression and privacy are not optional, but fundamental standards embedded
into code.

Such basic human rights should not be optional to begin with.

It is our hope that years from now, we will look back at today --- May 3rd,
2016 --- as the day on which the idea that **freedom of expression can be a
default standard on the web** took root on the Internet.

We deserve a better web, and we now have the tools to create it.

Step by step, service by service, and application by application we can build
something **truly world-changing.**

It will not be easy, but we can do it, **together.**

[Join us in this odyssey into the
ether!](https://blog.akasha.world/2017/01/16/into-the-ether/)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2016/05/03/unveiling-
akasha)

