[ ![Filecoin](../../../images/filecoin-logo.svg) ](../../../)

  * [Store](../../../store/)
  * [Provide](../../../provide/)
  * [Build](../../../build/)

    * Docs
    * Tools & services
    * Grants
    * Roadmap
    * Videos
    * Filecoin Community
    * Events

  * [Blog](../../../blog/)

Explore the Network

  * [Filfox.info](https://filfox.info/en)
  * [Filscan.io](https://filscan.io/#/tipset/chain)
  * [Filscout.io](https://filscout.io/en/)
  * [Spacegap](https://spacegap.github.io)
  * These explorers were built by community members and may have inaccuracies

[ EN ](../../../en) [ 中文 ](../../../zh-cn)

Category:

  * [updates](../../../blog/updates)

  *   *   * 

![](../../../images/icons/social/share.svg)

Oct 19, 2020  

## Updates to the Filecoin Security Program

Building a strong Security Culture in the Filecoin project has been one of our
core goals from the beginning of the project, from creating bleeding edge,
researched, and evaluated mathematical proofs that set the foundation for the
critical operations executed in the Filecoin Protocol (e.g. Proof of
Replication & Proof of Space Time), to building a culture of strong security
habits, secure code development and testing, through working with multiple
external security specialists, pentesters and researchers to audit our code
and practices.

With Filecoin’s mainnet launch, **we are excited to announce the new**
[**Filecoin Security website**](https://security.filecoin.io/), which includes
a listing of all the work done so far, what is to come and the updated Bug
Bounty Program!

### Launching [security.filecoin.io](https://security.filecoin.io/)

This site will serve as the central hub for the Filecoin Security Program. On
it, you can find details about: **Security Audits** , **Bug Bounty Program** ,
**Responsible Disclosure Policy** and **Previously reported findings and
mitigations.**

You can disclose your findings in two ways: encrypting them with a PGP key and
emailing us, or through Keybase. **Detailed instructions are available under
“Vulnerability Reporting” on the** [**Filecoin
Security**](https://security.filecoin.io/) **website**.

### Security Audits

We’ve been engaging with several reputable third party auditing specialists to
ensure that the theory behind the protocol and its implementation delivers the
intended value, enabling Filecoin to be a safe and secure network.

We are super thankful to our security partners that have worked with us for
the past years to ensure that Filecoin and its dependencies are secure. We are
grateful to our valuable Security partners:

  * [SigmaPrime](https://sigmaprime.io/)
  * [Trail of Bits](https://www.trailofbits.com/)
  * [ConsenSys Diligence](https://diligence.consensys.net/)
  * [NCC](https://www.nccgroup.com/)
  * [Least Authority](https://leastauthority.com/)
  * Several independent Security Researchers

You might have stumbled upon previous launches of audit reports from these
firms (e.g., [Drand](https://drand.love/blog/2020/08/10/drand-
launches-v1-0/#security-audit) &
[Gossipsub](https://blog.ipfs.io/gossipsubv1.1-eval-report-and-security-
audit)), and you can now find links to more reports in the [Audit Reports
section of the Filecoin Spec website](https://spec.filecoin.io/#section-
appendix.audit_reports.audit-reports), with many more to come in the near
future. The latest ones include:

  * [Filecoin Providing Subsystem Security Audit](https://spec.filecoin.io/#section-appendix.audit_reports.2020-07-28-filecoin-proving-subsystem) by SigmaPrime
  * [zk-SNARK Proofs Security Audit](https://spec.filecoin.io/#section-appendix.audit_reports.2020-07-28-zk-snark-proofs) by Dr Jean-Phillipe Aumasson and Antony Vennard
  * [Filecoin Actors Security Audit](https://spec.filecoin.io/#section-appendix.audit_reports.2020-10-19-actors-audit) by ConsenSys Diligence
  * [**Update, now released!** Filecoin Bellman / BLS Signatures Audit](https://spec.filecoin.io/#section-appendix.audit_reports.2020-10-20-filecoin-bellman-and-bls-signatures) by NCC
  * To be released soon: 
    * Filecoin Lotus Implementation Security Audit by Least Authority
    * Filecoin Lotus Implementation Security Audit by SigmaPrime, [**UPDATE, now released**](https://spec.filecoin.io/#section-appendix.audit_reports.2020-10-20-lotus-mainnet-ready-security-audit)

### Responsible Disclosure Policy

Ensuring that the protocol continues to be secure for its users requires
creating a platform in which findings can be reported, understood, patched,
deployed, and users can be informed about updates in a timely manner. For
this, we have established the [Filecoin Responsible Disclosure
Policy](https://security.filecoin.io/responsible-disclosure)

### Bug Bounty Program

Filecoin aims to create a decentralized storage network for humanity’s most
important information, so ensuring the network is secure and trustable is
paramount to its success. Building a secure network goes beyond rigorous
testing and auditing, and we believe that working together with the security
community will result in a more secure and stable future for the Filecoin
network. That is why we are launching the Filecoin Bug Bounty Program, through
which anyone can submit security vulnerabilities found in the network, the
core protocol, and its implementations, to be rewarded for their findings.

You can learn all about the [Filecoin Bug Bounty
Program](https://security.filecoin.io/bug-bounty) at the [Filecoin Security
site](https://security.filecoin.io/). In high level:

  * You will have a private channel to report your findings
  * As a bounty hunter, you are protected by a Safe Harbor Policy
  * ([ **UPDATE Oct 23, reward ranges increased**](https://security.filecoin.io/bug-bounty/)) You can win rewards up to $100,000 based on the severity of the issue: 
    * Critical: up to $100,000
    * High: up to $50,000
    * Medium: up to $15,000
    * Low: up to $2,500
    * Note: up to $500
  * There is no set end date on the program yet, but we are looking for ways to improve it, please watch this blog and the site for updates and send us your feedback at [security@filecoin.org](mailto:security@filecoin.org)

### A special thanks to the participants of the Security Research Fellowship

Last announcement but definitely not the least! During the Space Race
incentivized testnet competition, we worked with several members of the
community through the Filecoin Security Research Fellowship Program to enhance
the security of the network.

The Bug Bounty Program represents the continuation of this program in mainnet,
providing a platform to engage the broader Filecoin community, white hats, and
security researchers who are interested in improving the network.

Thank you all. We look forward to collaborating with the security community in
keeping Filecoin secure.

Happy bug hunting!

Filecoin is an open-source cloud storage marketplace, protocol, and incentive
layer.

##### Reach out

  * [Slack ](https://filecoin.io/slack)
  * [WeChat  ](https://weixin.qq.com/r/1xz54Y-EctINrcuC90nF)
  * [Twitter ](https://twitter.com/Filecoin)
  * [Forum ](https://github.com/filecoin-project/community#forums)
  * [Matrix ](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+filecoin:matrix.org)

##### Resources

  * [Research](https://research.filecoin.io/)
  * [Blog](https://filecoin.io/blog/)
  * [Github](https://github.com/filecoin-project)
  * [ProtoSchool](https://proto.school/course/filecoin)
  * [Security](https://security.filecoin.io/)

##### Sign up for Filecoin updates

Your email Submit

Something went wrong. Please try again.

You’ve been signed up for our newsletter. Thank you!

