[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/afe80f0fde3e&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Crypto
Punks](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*RuBSr8PcbcSSimYWrpQsHA.png)](https://medium.com/crypto-
punks?source=post_page-----afe80f0fde3e--------------------------------)

Published in

[Crypto Punks

](https://medium.com/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
afe80f0fde3e--------------------------------)

[![Sam
Aiken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/0*KLR9G_nzD3rK1p1w.jpg)](/@SamAI_Software?source=post_page
-----afe80f0fde3e--------------------------------)

[Sam Aiken](/@SamAI_Software?source=post_page-----
afe80f0fde3e--------------------------------)

Follow

Feb 14, 2020

·

12 min read

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*bSoq9m2SessuKj4HfoxeCA.jpeg)

Unsplash: [Kon Karampelas](https://unsplash.com/photos/o2gf2PF794w)

# Upgrade your subreddit with these best Reddit practices

## A well-organized subreddit is essential for decentralized governance
because the exposure on Reddit depends on the quality of a content, rather
than how many followers an author has. Here are some tips how to upgrade your
sub.

 **This article is a part of a series about a global digital resistance:**

  1. [Decentralized governance: inside Hong Kong’s open source revolution (LIHKG, Reddit, Pincong, GitHub)](/crypto-punks/decentralized-governance-inside-hong-kongs-open-source-revolution-lihkg-reddit-pincong-519ab2861793)
  2. [Digital resistance: security & privacy tips from Hong Kong protesters](/crypto-punks/digital-resistance-security-privacy-tips-from-hong-kong-protesters-37ff9ef73129)
  3. [Hong Kong digital warriors fight for freedom with memes, hashtags and hidden messages](/crypto-punks/hong-kong-digital-warriors-fight-for-freedom-with-memes-hashtags-and-hidden-messages-9075534d4c08)
  4. Upgrade your subreddit with these best Reddit practices (current)

 _Disclosure: some links in this article are referral links. I also own BTC,
ETH, BCH, XMR, and all other coins mentioned in the article, but my portfolio
is heavily diversified, so I don’t have financial incentives to shill for any
particular coin. This article is brought to you by a privacy-oriented peer-to-
peer marketplace_[ ** _LocalCryptos_**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra)
_, so you can read the content for free without a paywall._

# Intro

Before Internet, the distribution of information was centralized in the hands
of authorities that controlled the message.

Then came Internet where an exchange of information was very decentralized,
because public discussions mostly happened on small local online forums, in
chats, and via mailing lists.

Unfortunately, over the time huge tech giants emerged and centralized the
distribution of information, which made it easy for authoritarian states to
infiltrate and subvert the system, outsourcing censorship to tech
corporations.

That sparked many digital resistance movements from cypherpunks to crypto
advocates and Hong Kong pro-democracy activists, which led to an ongoing arms
race between people and a surveillance state all over the globe.

Nowadays, any big decentralized movement needs multiple online platforms that
can be used for discussions, sharing of information, and governance.

[

## Decentralized governance: inside Hong Kong’s open source revolution (LIHKG,
Reddit, Pincong…

### Dear passengers, welcome to Hong Kong, Cypherpunk Harbour. Please wipe out
your chat logs, photos, browsing history…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/decentralized-governance-inside-hong-kongs-open-source-
revolution-lihkg-reddit-pincong-519ab2861793)

Some highly advanced decentralized movements rely on their own online forums
(e.g., [LIHKG](https://lihkg.com/) in Hong Kong pro-democracy movement), while
others use already established social media platforms like Reddit.

In the beginning of this article we will focus on theoretical stuff and then
move to real examples (with images and links) of how to improve a sub.

## Why Reddit?

The problem with Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, VK, and their decentralized
clones (e.g. Mastodon) is that exposure of the content depends on the amount
of followers an author has, which is centralization of information through
gatekeepers, who might later become malicious or be forced by an adversary to
abuse their power.

For example, a famous sport star or a controversial comedian can get many
followers on social media and thus become an influencer. After becoming an
influencer, a person can start participating in governance/politics and get a
lot of exposure due to the huge army of followers regardless of how useful his
content is for the community.

Another example is a person that dedicated his life to the movement and got
many followers, so his contribution is largely recognized within the
community, but he might eventually become a radical or go rogue, while his
posts will still get a lot of exposure due to many followers.

However, a person with great ideas might not get any exposure simply because
he doesn’t have much followers and his content is not viral per se.
Additionally, a followers-based distribution of information de-incentivizes
regular people from participating in the movement, because they don’t feel
that they can influence the movement.

Another problem of Twitter-like platforms is that a person can lose all his
influence overnight due to one controversial post like it recently happened
with a very popular influencer ZeroHedge, whose Twitter account has been
[banned](https://twitter.com/BenjaminNorton/status/1223700802008731649) after
doxxing a Chinese scientist, who could be allegedly connected to the
coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan.

The exposure on Reddit-like online forums, on the other hand, depends on the
quality and relevance of the content, regardless of how many followers an
author has. This model allows anybody to participate in a decentralized
governance and get a lot of exposure if proposed ideas are valuable for the
movement.

Not every movement has enough resources to develop its own discussion
platforms, so using Reddit is the simplest solution. In this article we will
list best practices from different subreddits.

Here are the topics:

  * Reddit censorship-resistance
  * Onboarding resources
  * Wiki
  * Flairs
  * Megathreads for important events
  * Brainstorming megathreads
  * Finding peers
  * AMAs
  * Surveys
  * Cultural exchanges
  * Event calendar
  * Dealing with noise
  * Daily discussions
  * Discussion hubs
  * More subreddits
  * Memes

 _Here is a quick ad, so I can continue publishing articles without any
paywall._

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*OJF-C0T_6xTWlZYOF4sNZw.jpeg)

This article is brought to you by a privacy-oriented peer-to-peer self-
custodial end-to-end encrypted marketplace
[**LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra), where you can buy &
sell cryptocurrencies for fiat money. To start trading, create a new password-
protected account or log in with your [**favorite
wallet**](https://blog.localcryptos.com/localethereum-integrates-with-
wallets/?ref=eimahra) such as Ledger, MetaMask, or mobile apps like imToken.

[ **LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra) is an industry
leader in peer-to-peer non-custodial trading and a long-term sponsor of
[CryptoPunks](https://medium.com/crypto-punks) blog.

## Reddit censorship-resistance

Having only one subreddit as a command center is a dangerous approach, because
the power will be centralized in the hands of a few moderators, who can impose
censorship to control the narrative or they can be forced by an adversary to
cooperate. Additionally, Reddit itself can ban the subreddit of the movement
e.g. due to pressure from an authoritarian state.

Ideally, a decentralized movement should rely on different discussion
platforms and many subreddits, which are moderated by people with different
vision on the future of the movement. That will assure that all participants
can take part in the discussion, without being censored out due to their
believes.

Here are some examples of different platforms used in decentralized movements.

Hong Kong’s pro-democracy movement: [LIHKG](https://lihkg.com/),
[r/HongKong](https://reddit.com/r/HongKong),
[Pincong](https://pincong.rocks/).

Cryptocurrency community: [Bitcointalk](https://bitcointalk.org/),
[r/CryptoCurrency](https://www.reddit.com/r/cryptocurrency),
[r/Bitcoin](https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin),
[r/btc](https://www.reddit.com/r/btc),
[r/Ethereum](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum),
[r/Monero](https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero), etc.

## Onboarding resources

New people with nearly zero knowledge about the movement will visit a
subreddit every day, so there should be a well-structured onboarding material
with the crucial information and beginner’s guides.

There are different ways to present that information:

  * megathread
  * FAQ
  * top menu
  * sidebar
  * button with an external link

A
[megathread](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/cxsz4i/megathread_resources_for_antiextradition_protest/)
at [r/HongKong](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/) was a great example of an
onboarding resources list with many links to online forums, Reddit live feed,
different live streams, protests schedules, a wiki page, a live map, Telegram
channels, donation campaigns, and many more.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*39R3HqiK5GOvLOQG.png)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*SZji0ro-i1w-YX2l.png)

The
[FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/btc/comments/9lfjrb/frequently_asked_questions_and_information_thread/)
thread was pinned to [r/btc](https://www.reddit.com/r/btc/) in order to
onboard new users and explain the main differences between
[r/Bitcoin](https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/) and
[r/btc](https://www.reddit.com/r/btc) subs, because some newcomers could be
confused since there were 2 subreddits with similar names.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*Xlf7_jccoJHicu68.png)

Many useful resources for beginners were linked at the top menu of
[r/btc](https://www.reddit.com/r/btc).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*8NjEDhywhaF17r1W.png)

[r/Bitcoin](https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/) used a sidebar to link
important resources that can help with onboarding.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/662/0*SmUYn8DbL2RO89WJ.png)

[r/btc](https://www.reddit.com/r/btc) used “get started” button at the sidebar
that linked to an external website [bitcoin.com](https://www.bitcoin.com/get-
started/).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/650/0*7tZk4sibRZJxzcTQ.png)

## Wiki

A detailed wiki is a good way to provide newcomers with more information about
the movement, especially if there is no external wiki like
[bitcoin.it](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Main_Page).

For example, [r/australia](https://www.reddit.com/r/australia/) sub had a
dedicated wiki page about [Australian
bushfires](https://www.reddit.com/r/australia/wiki/bushfire_help).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/940/0*r7h3Fz55Zr4oypVi.png)

## Flairs

Adding colorful flairs and “filters by flairs” sidebar can help readers find
most relevant posts.

For example, flairs at [r/weekness](https://www.reddit.com/r/Weekness/)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/620/0*1WwwdXYGOFpLnVyP.png)

## Megathreads for important events

During some big live events there might be too many similar posts, so well-
moderated subreddits often use megathreads to combine together all discussions
about that specific event.

For example, a
[megathread](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/e111rq/2019_district_council_election_results_discussion/)
was used to discuss 2019 District Council Elections at
[r/HongKong](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1308/0*b77NDkbCOO7NPvxG.png)

## Brainstorming megathreads

Brainstorming megathreads are a good source of new ideas on particular topics
like suggestions how to improve a PR campaign or how to deal with water
cannons. Brainstorming megathreads can also increase engagement of regular
people in the movement, because they will feel that their voices are heard and
that they can influence the movement. Brainstorming megathreads can be created
periodically or when the movement faces a particular challenge. For example,
[this brainstorming
megathread](https://www.reddit.com/r/KatarinaMains/comments/5csuu2/katarina_rework_brainstorming_megathread/)
was used as a hub for all ideas and suggestions about a reworked character in
LoL online game.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*DBOsRNFuUBOArHVb.png)

## Finding peers

If the movement doesn’t have external platforms to find peers like
[LocalCryptos](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra), then a subreddit can
facilitate that.

For example, [Weekly Friends
Threads](https://www.reddit.com/r/gaming/comments/ercfyd/making_friends_monday_share_your_game_tags_here/)
at [r/gaming](https://www.reddit.com/r/gaming).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*HIUtB8Vo-8z4NTLR.png)

## AMAs

“Ask Me Anything” (AMA) threads are a good way to bring more attention to the
movement, motivate people to engage with the content, and clarify certain
misconceptions.

For example, Braiins company started an [AMA
session](https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/dz1mgp/ama_bitcoin_mining_stratum_v2_we_are_braiins_the/)
at [r/Bitcoin](https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/), which was pinned to the top
for a few days.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*0-d_tSX1JpJBn6FB.png)

Another approach is periodic AMAs e.g. every week or month. A good example is
Monero’s
[MAAM](https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/dkyd6l/maam_monero_ask_anything_monday_october_21_2019/)s
(Monday Ask Anything Monero), which are held every Monday.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*E2sBNhFLUTtlmW3z.png)

There are different ways to organize AMAs with influencers. New subreddits
might try to invite famous people, while popular subs can simply add a request
form.

For example, there is a “request an AMA” button at the sidebar of
[r/politics](https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/628/0*xS0bfd8U2d7LERGU.png)

Google forms can be used as a simple tool for AMA requests.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1300/0*e40fYqLmu0xtJF0h.png)

## Surveys

Conducting anonymous surveys can increase engagement and attract some
attention from news outlets. It can also give a better understanding of who
the activists of the movement are, their age groups, countries, etc.

A survey can be conducted with Google Forms or other third party solutions
like Survey Monkey.

Results can be presented as:  
1\. [Reddit post without
graphs](https://www.reddit.com/r/childfree/comments/ehjdcx/subreddit_demographic_survey_2019_the_results/)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*gYjQAMq9SMeN_sJj.png)

2\. [GitHub post with graphs](https://github.com/FreeCodeCamp/2016-new-coder-
survey/issues/40)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1370/1*KF-8RRpLPMYHb20NsyHK1g.png)

3\. [Medium post with graphs](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/stack-
overflow-2018-developer-survey-faac8d3eb357/)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*aAcvgqB9hFOP28gtUGqVow.png)

4\. [Webpage with interactive D3 visualizations](https://samai-
software.github.io/2016-new-coder-survey/)

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*yPnEBxLFDGpdNrD_drdPOA.png)

## Cultural exchanges

Organizing events with people from other subreddits can build a bridge between
two similar movements, and increase global solidarity.

For example, [r/HongKong](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/) organized a
[cultural
exchange](https://www.reddit.com/r/HongKong/comments/dji5k5/cultural_exchange_with_raskanamerican/)
event with another subreddit
[r/AskAnAmerican](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskAnAmerican/).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*FW5rKVLzzzqwl_8c.png)

## Event calendar

Scheduled events can be listed in the sidebar, e.g. an event calendar at
[r/politics](https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/628/0*GnMcYSQ6hfUYa7xT.png)

## Dealing with noise

When a sudreddit of the movement becomes big enough, the valuable information
might get lost in the noise, so it’s important to keep a conversation focused
on the main topic, while still give an opportunity for activists to engage in
less-important conversations. This can be achieved with daily discussion
threads, chatrooms, and creation of other subreddits.

## Daily discussions

For example, a [daily
discussion](https://www.reddit.com/r/CryptoCurrency/comments/e17gfo/daily_discussion_november_25_2019_gmt0/)
thread at [r/CryptoCurrency](https://www.reddit.com/r/CryptoCurrency/).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*44mSTd7LCFB1gOsM.png)

Daily discussion threads should be sorted by “new” by default in order to
facilitate chat-style live conversations.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*1N6UlA6GQxVGphVq.png)

## Discussion hubs

If there are many discussion posts, then they can be arranged into discussion
hubs.

For example, a discussion hub at
[r/witcher](https://www.reddit.com/r/witcher/comments/ed6m4a/episode_discussion_hub_the_witcher_s1/).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1310/0*3J4VfiULGXxAbYkd.png)

Another way to arrange discussion posts is to link them in the sidebar, e.g.
“Newest Official Discussions” at [r/movies](https://www.reddit.com/r/movies/).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/640/0*o0QiNYG4qmfJc9Sg.png)

Valuable discussions can be archived in the post or on the dedicated sub, e.g.
[Best of 2019 Discussion
Threads](https://www.reddit.com/r/discussionarchive/comments/ei5p69/best_of_2019_discussion_threads/)
archive at [r/discussionarchive](https://www.reddit.com/r/discussionarchive/).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/800/0*SzmhR6NrYih-W-Io.png)

## More subreddits

During big price swings, there is often a surge of price-related posts at many
crypto-related subreddits, so a moderator
[reminded](https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/e1drny/rbitcoin_is_not_a_price_shoutbox_if_you_wish_to/)
to all readers of [r/Bitcoin](https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/) that the
price-related content could be posted at daily discussion threads, in the
chatroom, or at another subreddit
[r/BitcoinMarkets](https://www.reddit.com/r/BitcoinMarkets/). At the
guidelines section in a sidebar there was also a link to
[r/CryptoCurrency](https://www.reddit.com/r/CryptoCurrency/) subreddit for
non-Bitcoin crypto posts.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*YasYSaZ3dXCLRj98.png)

Friendly subreddits can be listed in the sidebar, e.g. “Our other subreddits”
sidebar at [r/videos](https://www.reddit.com/r/videos/).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/628/0*4VuW6SW0M7YWZEUJ.png)

## Memes

Memes and artworks are important to raise global awareness and keep people
engaged with the issue, but sometimes there might be too many memes and they
receive lots of upvotes, so a valuable information gets lost. There are
different approaches to solve memes problem:

  1. Combine all memes about a certain event together into one megathread
  2. Move all memes to another subreddit
  3. Restrict memes to only a certain day of the week (e.g., Mondays at [r/witcher](https://www.reddit.com/r/witcher/comments/eokx5p/memes_are_for_mondays_only/))

For example, [r/CryptoCurrency](https://www.reddit.com/r/CryptoCurrency/) had
a link to [r/CryptoCurrencyMemes](https://reddit.com/r/cryptocurrencymemes)
subreddit at the top menu.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/772/1*0fU-cm1mVjD9avlDPuI1Kg.png)

## Other resources

[r/Modguide](https://www.reddit.com/r/modguide/) is a sub to help moderators,
and to learn/teach about moderation on Reddit, so you can find many useful
tips there.

# Conclusion

Reddit is a great platform to start a decentralized movement, but it’s still a
centralized solution, so it’s important to diversify from it once there are
more activists and more resources.

The future of decentralized governance depends on Reddit-like peer-to-peer
platforms, where exposure will depend on the quality and relevance of the
content. One of the projects to follow to is an open-source protocol
[Aether](https://getaether.net/), a Reddit-like peer-to-peer social network,
where moderators are elected and can be impeached or ignored individually.

If you want to support more candid articles about crypto, privacy, and
security, then please **share this article** ,
[**retweet**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software/status/1228211902490087425),
[**donate crypto**](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-
activism#donate), or simply sign up at
[**LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra) **** with this
referral link.

 _Disclaimer: I am not a licensed financial advisor, and this article is not a
financial advice. The information presented here is for educational purpose
only, it represents my personal opinion, and is not purported to be fact.
Cryptocurrencies are very volatile and can move quickly in any direction. I’m
not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or
alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any
content, goods, services or companies mentioned in this article. Seek a duly
licensed professional for an investment advice._

If you’re highly concerned about privacy & security, then you should read how
Hong Kong activists [avoid an internet surveillance](/crypto-punks/digital-
resistance-security-privacy-tips-from-hong-kong-protesters-37ff9ef73129).

[

## Digital resistance: security & privacy tips from Hong Kong protesters

### Full digital gear: Telegram, Protonmail, AirDrop, FireChat, Bridgefy,
PrivateBin, Fingertrapp, What3Words, Tor, VPN…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/digital-resistance-security-privacy-tips-from-hong-kong-
protesters-37ff9ef73129)

If you’ve decided to get some cryptos, make sure to read about [most common
mistakes](/crypto-punks/how-not-to-lose-your-money-when-entering-a-crypto-
market-8b95b68d1b76) amateur investors make.

[

## How not to lose your money when entering a crypto market

### I’ve lost money in flash crashes and during a bear market. I’ve learnt it
the hard way, but I’ve learnt it. Here’s what…

medium.com

](/crypto-punks/how-not-to-lose-your-money-when-entering-a-crypto-
market-8b95b68d1b76)

If you’re an activist, then check out an open source project [**decentralized-
activism**](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-activism), which
shares the best practices from different decentralized movements across the
globe.

[

## SamAI-Software/decentralized-activism

### The purpose of this project is to raise global solidarity, unite people,
and exchange valuable knowledge and experience…

github.com

](https://github.com/SamAI-Software/decentralized-activism)

  * Help inform people about Reddit’s best practices by **clapping** 50 times 👏
  * I only write quality content about cryptocurrencies, blockchain, privacy, security, and Hong Kong. Follow me on [**medium**](/@SamAI_Software), [**twitter**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software), or [**mastodon**](https://mastodon.technology/@samai), and you won’t regret that.
  * Send me a direct message on [**twitter**](https://twitter.com/SamAI_Software) **** or [**linkedin**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/samaisoftware) if you want me to help improve your project, white paper, website, or sponsor my next articles.
  * Use the most secure, private and intuitive way to swap cryptos with others for your local currency — [**LocalCryptos**](https://localcryptos.com/?ref=eimahra).

 _Thanks to_[ _Mattias Nystrom_](https://twitter.com/mat77ias) _for a review._

\--

1

\--

\--

1

## [More from Crypto Punks](/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
afe80f0fde3e--------------------------------)

Crypto revolution has begun

[Read more from Crypto Punks](/crypto-punks?source=post_page-----
afe80f0fde3e--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![David
Sheffer](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dmbNkD5D-u45r44go_cf0g.png)](/@davevsheffer?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[David Sheffer

](/@davevsheffer?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## Facebook’s echo chamber of misinformation

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*Oi3tyEwEbsKINwxnymyMEg.png)](/@davevsheffer/facebooks-
echo-chamber-of-misinformation-6456e5501214?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[[![Kris
Berardi](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*9mAtAW5pzRl9B9krQF4OdQ.jpeg)](/@klberardi?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Kris Berardi

](/@klberardi?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## How Social Media Can Be Used for Good During the Pandemic: Profile on
Harmony Albarran

](/@klberardi/how-social-media-can-be-used-for-good-during-the-pandemic-
profile-on-harmony-albarran-5c7434a4a3f9?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Ethan
Hackett](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*19WpxgzpSiTfgUXcCk7HKA.jpeg)](/@ethansmind?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Ethan Hackett

](/@ethansmind?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[The Startup

](https://medium.com/swlh?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Social Media Makes Us Sad — But That May Be a Good Thing

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*2JKE1Bj1ISRlDswQWDiXEQ.jpeg)](/swlh/social-
media-makes-us-sad-but-that-may-be-a-good-
thing-1df11c67753b?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![J.
Endress](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*ZZGz79vtkSPldwyB.)](/@jasonendress?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[J. Endress

](/@jasonendress?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Putting Content Before The Search

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*TG1U-SE_85vvRA-
hgzXjdA@2x.jpeg)](/@jasonendress/putting-content-before-the-
search-471ff040af01?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Daniel
Frohlich](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*fQJgshynuqnXZcx0pGTzLg.jpeg)](/@frohlich.dan?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Daniel Frohlich

](/@frohlich.dan?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

in

[curios

](https://medium.com/nprcurios?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Audio Faces Unique Challenges On Facebook

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*4yvLG7fQTnue2Od3R_Or8Q.jpeg)](/nprcurios/audio-
faces-unique-challenges-on-facebook-5776c4a12386?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[[![Anthony
Bertolo](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*JjutXqRY1oRIR5KcaMfSKQ.jpeg)](/@paybacktony?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Anthony Bertolo

](/@paybacktony?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

in

[Slyde Network

](https://medium.com/slyde-network?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## Goodbye Facebook. Hello, Slyde.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*_-BcO8p7KYdVcHIuZexY8w.png)](/slyde-
network/goodbye-facebook-hello-slyde-f52abefa42e?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[[![Trevor
Stark](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*B78NJh5fwq13x78w_yMBDQ.png)](/@trevorstark02?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Trevor Stark

](/@trevorstark02?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[InsiderFinance Wire

](https://medium.com/insiderfinance?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Elon Musk Offers To Buy Twitter For $43 Billion

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*6dkRyunlHIGeRa8R)](/insiderfinance/breaking-
elon-musk-offers-to-buy-twitter-
for-43-billion-399ce1d909ce?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![FANDOMTOKEN](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*AmZn3rZrox9vj7TKqM-
vyg.png)](/@fandomproject?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[FANDOMTOKEN

](/@fandomproject?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## New partnership: NewStar Corp.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*kDcHcUI6N6iOvwAXegjWWg.png)](/@fandomproject/new-
partnership-newstar-corp-87bbc5e2538?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----afe80f0fde3e--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
afe80f0fde3e--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
afe80f0fde3e--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
afe80f0fde3e--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
afe80f0fde3e--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----afe80f0fde3e--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----afe80f0fde3e--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcrypto-
punks%2Fupgrade-your-subreddit-with-these-best-reddit-practices-
afe80f0fde3e&source=post_page--------------------------nav_reg-----------)

[![Sam
Aiken](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/0*KLR9G_nzD3rK1p1w.jpg)](/@SamAI_Software)

[

## Sam Aiken

](/@SamAI_Software)

1.2K Followers

We are one big community

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F3cf7356baaf9&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fcrypto-
punks%2Fupgrade-your-subreddit-with-these-best-reddit-practices-
afe80f0fde3e&newsletterV3=39881a7541cc&newsletterV3Id=3cf7356baaf9&user=Sam+Aiken&userId=39881a7541cc&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Cody
Kessel](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*P-bZhhmuroSNtJ2XG0iiMA.jpeg)](/@codykessel?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------96754f85_b9f9_480b_9196_a8ffb84e8a47-------)

[Cody Kessel

](/@codykessel?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
96754f85_b9f9_480b_9196_a8ffb84e8a47-------)

## 2 Song Lyrics That Have Earned an Honorary Place in My Subconscious

](/@codykessel/2-song-lyrics-that-have-earned-an-honorary-place-in-my-
subconscious-7518e5700ac1?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------96754f85_b9f9_480b_9196_a8ffb84e8a47-------)

[[![Blockchain Founders
Group](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*KIKNoya6l8XiEq4YlXPFOg.png)](/@blockchainfounders?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------96754f85_b9f9_480b_9196_a8ffb84e8a47-------)

[Blockchain Founders Group

](/@blockchainfounders?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
96754f85_b9f9_480b_9196_a8ffb84e8a47-------)

## “Crypto Calling” — Stable Money — Was wir von Kryptowährungen lernen können

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*zRfTN4IcgRzhJEvY)](/@blockchainfounders/crypto-
calling-stable-money-was-wir-von-kryptowährungen-lernen-
können-e1c3fe1af754?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
96754f85_b9f9_480b_9196_a8ffb84e8a47-------)

[[![Blocklike](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*bJpQ5NxpIqflv15qv_zxUQ.jpeg)](/@blocklike?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------96754f85_b9f9_480b_9196_a8ffb84e8a47-------)

[Blocklike

](/@blocklike?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
96754f85_b9f9_480b_9196_a8ffb84e8a47-------)

## Blocklike Panel |NFT: Prove who I am in Metaverse

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*qyailvIhphm0FZQi)](/@blocklike/blocklike-
panel-nft-prove-who-i-am-in-metaverse-370d610e60bf?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------96754f85_b9f9_480b_9196_a8ffb84e8a47-------)

[[![Judy
Lucas](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*9RMMsGRU4XQs8xdb6c3DPg.jpeg)](/@judynlucas?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------96754f85_b9f9_480b_9196_a8ffb84e8a47-------)

[Judy Lucas

](/@judynlucas?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
96754f85_b9f9_480b_9196_a8ffb84e8a47-------)

## PlayCity Adds 211 Digital Glare Cabinets by Zitro

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*_5rzjKdwLHyF8TeEsZgIqg.jpeg)](/@judynlucas/playcity-
adds-211-digital-glare-cabinets-by-zitro-29bdd627301e?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------96754f85_b9f9_480b_9196_a8ffb84e8a47-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

