[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/2644efd372aa&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![WalletConnect](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*wFWwTEBQzTwsGIms4NTeww.png)](https://medium.com/walletconnect?source=post_page
-----2644efd372aa--------------------------------)

Published in

[WalletConnect

](https://medium.com/walletconnect?source=post_page-----
2644efd372aa--------------------------------)

[![Pedro
Gomes](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*qy1duRLL9cQg9yyouAQnIA@2x.jpeg)](/@pedrouid?source=post_page
-----2644efd372aa--------------------------------)

[Pedro Gomes](/@pedrouid?source=post_page-----
2644efd372aa--------------------------------)

Follow

Jun 15, 2020

Â·

3 min read

# WalletConnect Beta is over!

> WalletConnect is no longer on beta and the v1.0 protocol will remain
> unchanged. Additionally weâ€™ve brought you some new features such as mobile
> linking, more Layer 2 providers and a brand new multi-provider SDK!

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*Om_2pISNxKHW46FnjmYJnA.png)

All wallets that currently support WalletConnect

Itâ€™s finally over! Since itâ€™s first release weâ€™ve gathered some much
experience from interfacing with dozens of dapps and wallets. Building an
interoperability standard isnâ€™t easy but itâ€™s definitely worth it.

WalletConnect received its first grant around 2 years ago and the first beta
release was published 18 months ago. The community support has been tremendous
and we are glad to see it very actively building on top of the protocol.

> WalletConnect is now supported by 25 wallets and over 50 dapps!!

More importantly we are excited to announce that WalletConnect is no longer
just a protocol for connecting mobile wallets to desktop dapps but also now
support connecting to mobile dapps.

# Mobile Linking is now live!

The long awaited feature for connecting mobile wallets to mobile dapps is
finally here and we are excited to see it already support by four popular
wallets: Rainbow, Metamask, Gnosis Safe and Argent!

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/924/1*K-VoxIc7atoDtKXtu_rDmA.gif)

Rainbow Wallet mobile linking demo

Mobile linking faced a lot of design challenges to deliver a seamless user
experience across Android and iOS but we were able to standardize and compiled
a comprehensive flow to achieve the best UX possible.

Special thanks to the work of the [Rainbow](https://rainbow.me/) team that
made it possible by providing a brand new design to WalletConnect modal!

# Layer 2 Support

As WalletConnect adoption grows weâ€™ve also expanded the support of the
protocol to more use-cases and signing capabilities. We look forward to more
Layer 2 applications and to enable that weâ€™ve added support for many great
Layer 2 protocols.

Last year we introduced State Channel support with our ChannelProvider that
allows secure state channel signing for [Connext](https://connext.network/)
clients.

This year we introduced [Starkware](https://starkware.co/) support with our
StarkwareProvider that allows secure STARK signing for StarkEx.

Finally we added support for 3ID authentication compatible with
[3Box](https://3box.io/) SDK that allows secure data authentication and
encryption.

# New Multi-Provider SDK

Since weâ€™ve added an expanded support for multiple use-cases, we wanted to
allow developers to maintain a high-quality user experience for their dapps.
Therefore we created a new Walletconnect SDK that supports multiple providers
through a single connection.

With the new Walletconnect SDK you will be able to prompt users to connect
with their mobile wallets and then get the specific provider you are looking
for.

# Improved Javascript Libraries

Finally one the biggest feedback that weâ€™ve received was that our Javascript
libraries were lacking some platform compatibility support and were
distributed through large bundles.

Now we distribute a single isomorphic standalone client compatible with
Browser, NodeJS and React-Native which comes bundled with all providers.

Additionally weâ€™ve added tree-shaking capabilities and reduced the bundle size
to all libraries across the board.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*fwjVEjvut6bs7ezosTkZKA.png)

# What is next?

We continue to work tirelessly to improve both developer and user experience
for blockchain. We participate in many other projects that improve
decentralized application interoperability.

  * [Web3Modal](https://github.com/Web3Modal/web3modal)
  * [CAIP (Chain Agnostic Proposals)](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs)
  * [Ceramic Network](https://github.com/ceramicnetwork/specs)

Most importantly, we are working on the v2.0 protocol specification which is
aiming to bring a lot more features that v1.0 protocol can currently support:

  * Waku messaging
  * WebRTC sessions
  * Multi-chain support
  * Authenticated Metadata
  * Multi-session connections

# Support us!

If you would like to support WalletConnect, reach out to us on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/walletConnect/) or
[Telegram](https://t.me/walletConnect/).

Also consider contributing to our Gitcoin grant!! [**Donate
here**](https://gitcoin.co/grants/275/walletconnect-2)

All contributions are matched by Gitcoin sponsors until June 29!

\--

\--

\--

## [More from WalletConnect](/walletconnect?source=post_page-----
2644efd372aa--------------------------------)

Open protocol connecting Wallets to Dapps ðŸ“²

[Read more from WalletConnect](/walletconnect?source=post_page-----
2644efd372aa--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Future
Mind](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*BsL6tqOu-V41oofoazUaQQ.png)](/@futuremind?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Future Mind

](/@futuremind?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

in

[Future Mind

](https://medium.com/futuremind?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## How to choose the right cloud service provider

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*ck9q3mpGG9ShagpxeitXEA.jpeg)](/futuremind/how-
to-choose-the-right-cloud-service-
provider-79c82b01642e?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Erin
Davis](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*NDkiWxITwPSQQgQnYZ-0_w.png)](/@erinloisdavis?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Erin Davis

](/@erinloisdavis?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

in

[Adobe Tech Blog

](https://medium.com/adobetech?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Safari ITP 2.1 Impact on Adobe Experience Cloud Customers

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*gSdnV_gOCX8Os5E4kEYgbQ.jpeg)](/adobetech/safari-
itp-2-1-impact-on-adobe-experience-cloud-
customers-9439cecb55ac?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Jeremy
Daly](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/2*chtQLRUqEvPbXeboslW6Mw.jpeg)](/@jeremydaly?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Jeremy Daly

](/@jeremydaly?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

in

[Serverless Cloud

](https://medium.com/serverlesscloud?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Introducing Serverless Cloud Events

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*J1rXuhmoKGe8tn-9LF0UnQ.jpeg)](/serverlesscloud/introducing-
serverless-cloud-events-8fa14346c34f?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![NKN](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*ShvXaX4QUWRaULHU.jpg)](/@NKN_ORG?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[NKN

](/@NKN_ORG?source=post_internal_links---------3----------------------------)

in

[#NKN

](https://medium.com/nknetwork?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## NKN Bi-weekly Report September 16â€“30, 2020

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*2d8HIzonFDdyDgP9)](/nknetwork/nkn-
bi-weekly-report-september-16-30-2020-9e903d14b1ec?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[[![Benjamin Calvin](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*45fUP7iZu05LwO9rn-
PtNw.jpeg)](/@benjamin.calvin?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[Benjamin Calvin

](/@benjamin.calvin?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Unity â€” Creating a secondary weapon Part 1 / 2

![](https://miro.medium.com/freeze/focal/112/112/50/50/1*wC6HP3U4gT7u8Mfm_MHVTg.gif)](/@benjamin.calvin/unity-
creating-a-secondary-weapon-part-1-2-350a0c63af0a?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[[![Cursemagic](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*HruQZlVtLe9iFjJh.jpg)](/@cursemagic?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[Cursemagic

](/@cursemagic?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## TryHackMe ColddBox: Easy (Beginner Friendly Write-up)

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*A-zXwFpP33ts1Mma.png)](/@cursemagic/tryhackme-
colddbox-easy-beginner-friendly-write-
up-471ac80757a4?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Swapnilsukare](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*bdmYSGGCqtZh7eQh)](/@swapnil940sukare?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Swapnilsukare

](/@swapnil940sukare?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## ARTH_TASK 19

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*TO_dVYBld47cmwmh.jpg)](/@swapnil940sukare/arth-
task-19-bea63c7be258?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Alexa
Anderson](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*wBjb5KuJbut8tZ5dlQPyrQ.jpeg)](/@PopularDemand?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Alexa Anderson

](/@PopularDemand?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## The Heroku Procfile

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*oz7TbdL2pz-
PLRtoGUnDPA.png)](/@PopularDemand/the-heroku-
procfile-43be41853637?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----2644efd372aa--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
2644efd372aa--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
2644efd372aa--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
2644efd372aa--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
2644efd372aa--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----2644efd372aa--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----2644efd372aa--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fwalletconnect%2Fwalletconnect-
beta-is-over-2644efd372aa&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Pedro
Gomes](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*qy1duRLL9cQg9yyouAQnIA@2x.jpeg)](/@pedrouid)

[

## Pedro Gomes

](/@pedrouid)

503 Followers

Building WalletConnect

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2Fdcee604617e0&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fwalletconnect%2Fwalletconnect-
beta-is-
over-2644efd372aa&newsletterV3=a9b602b091af&newsletterV3Id=dcee604617e0&user=Pedro+Gomes&userId=a9b602b091af&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Niklauzi](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*ig1dN87IDeM_MNda3APLDw.png)](/@ftpfavour?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------96bac42a_b7ae_48af_bffc_fb8777f10b0d-------)

[Niklauzi

](/@ftpfavour?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
96bac42a_b7ae_48af_bffc_fb8777f10b0d-------)

## PICOGO: TASK PUBLISHER FOR WEB 3.0. WHAT ARE THEY ABOUT?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*a6E4pWX3LzLgLYuZ3i-U3g.jpeg)](/@ftpfavour/picogo-
task-publisher-for-web-3-0-what-are-they-
about-7d731f8aa744?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
96bac42a_b7ae_48af_bffc_fb8777f10b0d-------)

[[![FiorenzaNapol1tani](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*2Xe6Qfru9oPTx7BG26GqTw.jpeg)](/@FiorenzaNapol1tani?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------96bac42a_b7ae_48af_bffc_fb8777f10b0d-------)

[FiorenzaNapol1tani

](/@FiorenzaNapol1tani?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
96bac42a_b7ae_48af_bffc_fb8777f10b0d-------)

## Short Polygon Network History

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*cvjo-
Wrg4HKmMCOb7vKirw.png)](/@FiorenzaNapol1tani/short-polygon-network-
history-d960c8742d9b?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
96bac42a_b7ae_48af_bffc_fb8777f10b0d-------)

[[![manvsc](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*MzuDlu1HTjnkOSg6)](/@manvsc?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------96bac42a_b7ae_48af_bffc_fb8777f10b0d-------)

[manvsc

](/@manvsc?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
96bac42a_b7ae_48af_bffc_fb8777f10b0d-------)

## How to create test proposals on snapshot.org

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*zYaHePX0XmnkY55aY2Ffnw.png)](/@manvsc/how-
to-create-test-proposals-on-snapshot-org-e6646b677afe?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------96bac42a_b7ae_48af_bffc_fb8777f10b0d-------)

[[![ARTRACX
DIGITAL](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*6Qz6CiBppp7pQFPik5l9wA.png)](/@artracx?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------96bac42a_b7ae_48af_bffc_fb8777f10b0d-------)

[ARTRACX DIGITAL

](/@artracx?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
96bac42a_b7ae_48af_bffc_fb8777f10b0d-------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------96bac42a_b7ae_48af_bffc_fb8777f10b0d-------)

## Why all living artists should create their provenance and self-sovereign
identity with their art ?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*7mVgIw9yfmCPRzqa)](/coinmonks/why-
all-living-artists-should-create-their-provenance-and-self-sovereign-identity-
with-their-art-fffb03720c40?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------96bac42a_b7ae_48af_bffc_fb8777f10b0d-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

