[Go Back](../../)[Fleek.co](https://Fleek.co)

# We Added Filecoin to the Space Daemon

![](https://fleekblog-team-bucket.storage.fleek.co/space-daemon-
filecoin/Space-Filecoin-logo.jpg)

October 15th: Mark this date on your calendars, folks!

Indeed, as announced in a [recent blog post from Protocol
Labs](https://filecoin.io/blog/mainnet-ignition/), the Filecoin Mainnet will
launch on October 15th. This is a landmark event not just for Filecoin, but
for the Dweb community as a whole.

And at Fleek we’re excited for the Filecion Launch!

# The Space Daemon: Now with more Filecoin

![](https://fleekblog-team-bucket.storage.fleek.co/space-daemon-
filecoin/mario-filecoin-l.png)

We’ve recently added support for Filecoin to the Space Daemon. In effect,
we’ve added the option of joining the Filecoin network through an
implementation of [Textile’s Powergate](https://docs.textile.io/powergate/),
thus allowing developers to leverage the capabilities of both Space and
Filecoin.

In fact, we even showcased our Powergate implementation in a recent [Space
Daemon Masterclass](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pWJ5fty-7mA). Such
developments demonstrate that the Space Daemon is meant to be an integral part
of the decentralized web alongside Filecoin.

But why not simply run your own Filecoin node without the Space Daemon and
call it day? Why are both important?

That’s because of _an important role_ fulfilled by the Daemon.

# An important role

![](https://fleekblog-team-bucket.storage.fleek.co/space-daemon-filecoin/one-
does-not.jpeg)

Filecoin does not encrypt uploaded files is therefore public, perusable by
anyone.

This is a conscious decision made by the Protocol Labs team, leaving the door
open for developers to decide if and how files should be encryped, thus making
Filecoin a generic storage layer which can be tailored to any situation.

Of course, there are many applications in which privacy from encryption is not
that important. However, for most use cases, including ones which include some
sort user login, protecting user data is mandatory.

But this fact begs important questions related to encryption of uploaded
files: How should we handle encryption on Filecoin? Who will control the
cryptographic keys? How will users share specific data in a secure manner, if
they’ll even be able to do so?

After all, one does not simply uploads to Filecoin.

Luckily, the Space Daemon is perfect for this. The Daemon takes care of
encryption using keys stored on the user’s machine. Furthermore, the Daemon
comes with optional sharing and identity functionality that can be used to
share data with other users. Such capabilities allows developers to create
advanced applications that respect privacy without pulling their hair out.

As such, the Space Daemon fulfills an important function in the Filecoin
ecosystem.

# The future looks bright

![](https://fleekblog-team-bucket.storage.fleek.co/space-daemon-
filecoin/4guj4g.gif)

There’s still more work to be done to make our Filecoin implementation the
best it could be. In fact, we are currently working on improving it as we
speak.

Such improvements include harmonizing the Powergate node and the Daemon by
exposing our encrypted data layer and adding supplementary functions to the
Daemon to make such interactions as easy as possible.

And since we need to make those changes anyway to add Filecoin functionality
to our upcoming [Space Storage app](https://space.storage/), these
improvements should come in due time. That being said we are always open to
suggestions.

If you are developing an application on top of the Space Daemon and want some
of those features quicker, you can contact us and it will be a pleasure to
help you out!

  * Sign up for [Space Beta](https://space.storage)
  * Follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/spacestorage)
  * Reach out at hi@space.storage
  * Check out our [Tech Docs](https://docs.fleek.co/space-daemon/overview/)

Published 1 Oct 2020

  * [Filecoin](../../tag/filecoin/)

Fleek is all you need to build websites and apps on the new Open Web:
permissionless, trustless, censorship resistant, and free of centralized
gatekeepers. Welcome to the new internet.[](https://www.twitter.com/FleekHQ)

