[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# We are an accelerator

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

We are an accelerator

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Jamie-Burke-Hi-
Res-150x150.png)

January 2020

Posted by

Jamie Burke

CEO and Founder

 ...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/jamie-burke/)

### Outlier Ventures has been around since 2014. We were one of the first
institutional investors in blockchain, and we believe the first in Europe.
We’ve backed over 20 projects from pre-seed to Series A, and supported live
networks to scale. Last year we were voted ‘Europe’s Hottest Blockchain
Investor’ at The Europa’s, followed by ‘Outstanding Business Partner’ by
leading exchange Huobi.





Posted by Jamie Burke - January 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Jamie-Burke-Hi-
Res-150x150.png)

January 2020

Posted by

Jamie Burke

CEO and Founder

 ...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/jamie-burke/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/asm-and-ov-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-asm/) [Why we
invested in Altered State Machine (ASM)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-
invested-in-asm/)

April 2022  
Jamie Burke

[ ![OutlierVenturesInvestsinLumerin](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/03/why-we-invested-in-lumerin-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-lumerin/) [Why
we invested in Lumerin](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-
lumerin/)

March 2022  
Jamie Burke

### **We were an incubator.**

In the past, we incubated projects at R&D stage, in most cases over several
years, from token design all the way to rolling out networks and customer go-
to-markets, delivered by a team of 30 staff. As far as we are aware we were
the first incubator globally to hire a Head of Tokenomics, who went on to
deliver award-winning work with Imperial College of London called: The 3Ds of
Token Design.



### **We aren’t a ‘fund’.**

What most people don’t know about us is it's always been our money, not 3rd
party LPs. We never created a ‘fund’ in the classic sense, we never took
management fees or carry and so we have never had to deploy capital or
distribute profits to the 20+ partners, that make-up the amazing Outlier
family, myself included.

We have been, and continue to be, deeply committed to the space, our portfolio
and long on digital assets, or rather what we like to think of as digital
commodities that will power Web 3.0. We have only very rarely invested without
being engaged as an advisor, and where we feel we can directly impact the
success of a project. Where we are an advisor any upside typically vests over
multiple years mirroring founders for alignment.

During this time we have seen sentiment rise and fall. Competitors and
partners have come and gone but we made the conscious decision to reinvest all
profits back into the Outlier platform, to continue to support our projects
and expand a highly synergistic portfolio, we call ‘The Stack’. This equates
to several million of our own hard-earned cash back into activities from
events, including our own developer conference called Diffusion, building
direct integrations between protocols via OV Labs and directly supporting
developer/enterprise customer adoption.

But whilst we have been doing all this we ourselves have been a startup
‘finding fit’…



### **Condensing 6 years into 3 months**

Late last year (2019) almost 6 years into our journey we decided to take
everything and everyone we know and condense it into an intense 3-month
accelerator program, called [Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-
camp/), initially based out of London HQ.

We brought together our amazing network of leading Web 3.0 investors, founders
and entrepreneurs as well as senior executives from major corporations into an
insanely intense program. The first cohort is now off in the wild closing
customers, investment and partnerships, including with the rest of The Stack.

Where in the past, we would have been the lead and often sole advisor here we
are primarily facilitators and guides providing a structure that surfaces and
responds to the unique needs of each startup through a network of amazing
mentors. We also discovered startups working together as peers during this
phase rather than in isolation made a huge difference to their progress, but
also mental health and wellbeing.

Furthermore, an accelerator is infinitely more scalable, and ironically more
impactful, than a multi year incubator. We have now gone from working with a
handful of projects a year to eight per cohort, which we can run multiple
times a year across multiple cities. We are now beginning our second cohort in
London this March, and are rolling it out first to Berlin in Summer 2020 and a
third city in the Autumn.

Because of the emergent qualities of Web 3: new business models, tokens vs
equity, new fundraising methods, business models and value capture as well as
nascent developer tooling we believe this new paradigm needs a new
accelerator. The 100+ applicants we receive for every cohort would seem to
agree.

In short, we found Fit.

###

### **We are a Deep Tech accelerator, focused on ‘The New Data Economy’**

We’ve always looked at blockchains and crypto in the context of their
relationship with other technology domains, in particular, IoT, Big Data and
AI. Many startups in our portfolio are as much an AI or Big Data company as
they are a blockchain startup. So to all intents and purposes we are a ‘Deep
Tech’ accelerator, the critical ingredient and common denominator being data:
its production, commodification and consumption.

Where previously we focused mainly on protocols and infrastructure now the
stack is maturing Middleware companies that productise it and onboard the 99%
of developers are emerging and increasingly Apps that fit the needs of a given
industry, most interestingly in Transportation, Manufacturing, Health, Energy
and Telecommunications. This means we love equity as much as tokens.



### **From our thesis to** **OUR** **thesis**

The goal of our accelerator is to help each cohort get further, faster, with
clarity on mission, positioning, product momentum and ecosystem contacts. We
are now directly inviting our network to provide input into the design and
thesis of our next cohorts.

As such we are recruiting sponsors to share in the commercial upside through
co-branded programs, including the ability to directly inform the startup
selection process and city roll-out.

If you are a blockchain fund, traditional tech VC or a corporate venture arm
looking to gain access to the space and wish to become a strategic sponsor or
even just get us aligned with your thesis please hit me up!

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

