[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Outlier Ventures is seeking to become a UK Visa endorsing body. Add your
name to the petition below.

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

We need your help! Outlier Ventures is seeking to become a UK Visa endorsing
body. Add your name to the petition below.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Jamie-Burke-Hi-
Res-150x150.png)

November 2020

Posted by

Jamie Burke

CEO and Founder

 ...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/jamie-burke/)

### We need your help!

### Crypto regulation globally is at a critical inflexion point. Regulators
must choose to either embrace these new technologies and adopt proportionate,
clear regulation or continue to rely on outdated, inconsistent enforcement
regimes that stifle innovation. We believe the UK is the perfect jurisdiction
to serve as a global hub for the industry and build upon our success in tech,
venture, financial and associated professional services.

> ### **To make that happen Outlier Venture needs to be able to become a ‘UK
> Visa endorsing body’.**

Posted by Jamie Burke - November 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Jamie-Burke-Hi-
Res-150x150.png)

November 2020

Posted by

Jamie Burke

CEO and Founder

 ...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/jamie-burke/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

This inflexion point is an incredible opportunity for the UK to become a
world-leading crypto jurisdiction post-Brexit and in so doing future proof its
tech and financial services industry for the next phase in the development of
The Web, Web 3, and attract the best founders and projects from around the
world to live, incorporate, work and hire in the UK.

To help the UK take advantage of this opportunity and to continue accelerating
the adoption of decentralised technology here in the UK, Outlier is looking to
become an approved endorsing body for **Innovator** and **Start-Up UK visas**.

Outlier has been investing in the UK’s Web 3 ecosystem since 2013, the first
in Europe, and so far has helped founders successfully incubate and accelerate
world changing ideas in over 30 early-stage Web 3 start-ups (in the UK and
elsewhere) as part of our Base Camp accelerator.

Founders from outside the EEA (and, post-Brexit, possibly also inside the EEA)
seeking to set up a business in the UK would typically need either an
Innovator or Start-Up visa. To qualify for this type of visa - which can
provide a route to settle permanently in the UK - founders need to obtain an
endorsement from an approved endorsing body.

To become an approved endorsing body, we need to be recommended by a UK
Government department led by a UK or devolved government minister (or a
regionally-devolved authority led by a directly-elected mayor (e.g the Greater
London Authority) vouching for Outlier’s suitability. We have contacted
several parties but we need to show community support to build momentum to
help them prioritise during unprecedented and challenging times with Brexit
and COVID.

Outlier is seeking a show of support from its network of founders, investors,
partners and others to recognise the strength of Outlier’s contribution to the
UK Web 3 venture ecosystem; and confirm that Outlier would make an outstanding
approved endorsing body.

To give your support please complete the short form below.

Thank you!

Jamie Burke, Founder & CEO

Outlier Ventures



Loading…

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

