[Go Back](../../)[Fleek.co](https://Fleek.co)

# We Rebranded. Terminal is now Fleek!

![](https://fleek-team-bucket.storage.fleek.co/thumbnails-blog/FleekNew.png)

We’re excited to announce that as of March 31, 2020, Terminal has rebranded to
Fleek.

As part of our rebranding, below are all the new names and accounts to use:

  * Name: Fleek 
  * Website: [fleek.co](https://fleek.co)
  * Twitter: [FleekHQ](https://twitter.com/fleekHQ)
  * Slack: [Community](https://join.slack.com/t/fleek-public/shared_invite/zt-bxna7y1d-PbVdut4rgHt5jM6Zjg9g9A)
  * Email: support@fleek.co
  * Company: Fleek Labs Inc.

Earlier this year we successfully launched a new platform, announced a new
company direction, a new product roadmap focused around IPFS, etc. Everything
about us was new, but we still had our old name, which made it feel like
something was off. On top of that, while most users liked the name Terminal,
there were a few users who let us know that they didn’t love the name and that
they felt it might confuse our clients given Terminal already has a separate
and well-established meaning in the developer world. One thing we take pride
in as a company is listening to customer feedback and iterating accordingly,
and this situation was no different. Given everything else about us was new,
we felt a new name was the perfect way to fully complete our transition and
best situate ourselves for the future.

We love the name Fleek and we feel it’s a perfect fit for our current
platform, product, and future roadmap, so we hope you’ll love it as much as we
do. It’s short, one syllable, fun to say, and most importantly it has no
existing meaning in the developer world (but we look forward to giving it
one).

For users, the name change has no impact on the platform besides small
cosmetic/design updates, so you can log in and continue using the platform
with your existing account as if nothing happened. Any existing tmnl.co
subdomains you have in your account will still function as intended, and going
forward any new sites you deploy will be given a fleek.co subdomain instead.
The only other small changes are that emails will come from a fleek.co email
from now on, and visiting terminal.co will auto-redirect you to fleek.co.

As we begin our future as Fleek, we’d like to take this opportunity to thank
our amazing users for all the feedback and support thus far, because without
you none of this would be possible. We’ve got some super exciting stuff on the
roadmap this year and can’t wait to share it with you all.

\- The Fleek Team

Published 31 Mar 2020

  * [Announcement](../../tag/announcement/)
  * [Rebrand](../../tag/rebrand/)

Fleek is all you need to build websites and apps on the new Open Web:
permissionless, trustless, censorship resistant, and free of centralized
gatekeepers. Welcome to the new internet.[](https://www.twitter.com/FleekHQ)

