[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Web 3 funding: September 2020 in numbers

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Web 3 funding: September 2020 in numbers

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/ov_ana-150x150.jpg)

October 2020

Posted by

Ana-Maria Yanakieva

Investment Manager

Ana-Maria is also responsible for the identification and implementation of new
Outlier Venture’s Base Camp deals with a specific focus on fundraising, go-to-
market planning, and overseeing the full investor relations process for the
accelerator....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/ana-maria-
yanakieva/)

September is proving once again the industry is here to stay. Despite slight
slowdown in the markets, fundraising is booming. **Continuing the tradition I
am looking into the fundraising data for the second quarter of the year to get
a comprehensive view of the state of Web 3.** I am doing this every month to
see how the true effect of COVID-19 unravels in the Web 3 world in near real
time across 5 charts. [**See August 2020 numbers
here.**](https://outlierventures.io/research/web-3-funding-august-2020-in-
numbers/)

Posted by Ana-Maria Yanakieva - October 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/ov_ana-150x150.jpg)

October 2020

Posted by

Ana-Maria Yanakieva

Investment Manager

Ana-Maria is also responsible for the identification and implementation of new
Outlier Venture’s Base Camp deals with a specific focus on fundraising, go-to-
market planning, and overseeing the full investor relations process for the
accelerator....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/ana-maria-
yanakieva/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

# September is solidifying fundamentals with 97 deals and $227 million raised.
This is 4x more deals than August.

![Web 3 funding: September 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/10/Screenshot-2020-10-13-at-21.31.51.png)

_Source: Pitchbook, Crunchbase and The Block_

The median raise this month was $1.4 million across 26 different verticals.
The majority of the deals were equity-based transactions. The markets are
taking a break from an August filled with sales and farming. We are
solidifying the fundamentals as uncertainty looms in the macro picture.

# 52% of the deals were in DeFi & Fintech.

![Web 3 funding: September 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/10/Screenshot-2020-10-13-at-21.32.13.png)

_Source: Pitchbook, Crunchbase and The Block_

The DeFi & Fintech companies that raised in September are spread across 16
niches. This time around Exchanges, Infrastructure and Asset Management topped
the chart with almost half of all DeFi deals. Payments, liquidity and
accounting and tax are still going strong. Very positive to see more and more
infrastructure being built around the challenges experienced in the sharp
uptick of usage and contracts deployed in August. DeFi is all about
experimentation and iteration.

> If you are a founder looking at the future of finance, drop me a
> [message](https://twitter.com/ana_yanakieva)!

# DeFi & Fintech also attracted 2/3rd of the funding with $157 million
committed!

Equity investors are catching up on deal making this month with DeFi projects.
The fundamentals of the industry are being developed alongside speculation and
experimentation. Unlike Fintechs, DeFi adopted a “build now, ask for
forgiveness later” mentality which is definitely shortening innovation cycles.
The downside is regulators being on their toes again, but the market is not
too bothered.

# Media, NFT, Ledger, Infrastructure are amongst the other 26 verticals with
4-5 deals each.

![Web 3 funding: September 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/10/Screenshot-2020-10-13-at-21.31.51.png)

_Source: Pitchbook, Crunchbase and The Block_

In the past few months we had a spike in infrastructure with Near announcing a
raise, DIA raising via bonding curve sale and Avalanche going public with
their token. This month we saw 5 ledger deals despite having a broad choice of
layer 1 ledgers, teams are launching continuously. Hopefully they’ll be
putting these raises to work with developer adoption.

This month the focus in the media was on NFTs but the influx of new teams are
still to show traction and raise. Fundraising is a lagging indicator. I am
very bullish on the short term outlook for the Metaverse. From virtual lands,
avatars, art to digital fashion and experiences, we are exploring a variety of
use cases.

> If you are a founder building in the Metaverse, drop me a
> [message](https://twitter.com/ana_yanakieva)!

# The most common round for September was ~~public token sales~~ seed.

![Web 3 funding: September 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/10/Screenshot-2020-10-13-at-21.32.43.png)

_Source: Pitchbook, Crunchbase and The Block_

How the tables have turned. The past 2 months were quite crazy and the markets
took a bit of a break. This month the most popular raises are equity-based
seeds. In fact we only saw one private sale (publicly announced). The month
was also quite positive for M&A activity and equity crowdfunding. Congrats
team Pynk!

![Web 3 funding: September 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/10/Screenshot-2020-10-13-at-21.33.00.png)

_Source: Pitchbook, Crunchbase and The Block_

# Europe is hooot and leading the US by 4 deals with 40 in total and about
$60m more committed putting Europe at $123m.

Thank you Bitpanda and congrats on the $52m!

![Web 3 funding: September 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/10/Screenshot-2020-10-13-at-21.33.34.png)

_Source: Pitchbook, Crunchbase and The Block_

## Join our growing ecosystem

[![Web 3 funding: September 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/09/OBBC_Signature3.gif)](https://outlierventures.io/base-
camp/)

Outlier Ventures is all about building an ecosystem that collectively strives
to drive innovation and progress within the world of Web 3. We’re always
looking for amazing mentors, investors and Web 3 enthusiasts to join us on
this journey. Let us know how you want to be involved at
[basecamp@outlierventures.io](mailto:basecamp@outlierventures.io).

> If you’re a startup interested in joining a future Base Camp programme,
> [APPLY NOW](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/).

## Follow Ana on social media

[ANA.vc](http://ana.vc/) | [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ana_yanakieva)

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

