[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Web 3 funding: Q2 2020 in numbers

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Web 3 funding: Q2 2020 in numbers

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/ov_ana-150x150.jpg)

July 2020

Posted by

Ana-Maria Yanakieva

Investment Manager

Ana-Maria is also responsible for the identification and implementation of new
Outlier Venture’s Base Camp deals with a specific focus on fundraising, go-to-
market planning, and overseeing the full investor relations process for the
accelerator....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/ana-maria-
yanakieva/)

Over 100 days into lockdown in the UK and we are starting to open up the
economy. Europe and the US opened over a month ago. So it is time to draw the
line and see the short term implications of the pandemic on the Web 3 world.
Continuing the tradition I am looking into the fundraising data for the second
quarter of the year to get a comprehensive view of the state of web3. We are
doing this every month to see how the true effect of COVID-19 unravels in the
web3 world in near real time. [**See April numbers
here.**](https://ana.vc/web3-funding-april-in-numbers/)

Posted by Ana-Maria Yanakieva - July 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/ov_ana-150x150.jpg)

July 2020

Posted by

Ana-Maria Yanakieva

Investment Manager

Ana-Maria is also responsible for the identification and implementation of new
Outlier Venture’s Base Camp deals with a specific focus on fundraising, go-to-
market planning, and overseeing the full investor relations process for the
accelerator....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/ana-maria-
yanakieva/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

# ![Web 3 funding: Q2 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/07/Screenshot-2020-07-10-at-16.14.07.png)

# Q2 2020 saw 90 deals at nearly $200 million raised. A 70% drop in $$
commitments across 25% less deals.

![Web 3 funding: Q2 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/07/Screenshot-2020-07-10-at-16.50.34.png)

_Source: Crunchbase_

**The median raise this quarter was $2 million across 28 different
verticals.** The difference between Q1 and Q2 2020 is coming from less series
A and B rounds. Scale ups were most likely to struggle meeting their numbers.
At pre-seed and seed level the value of the company is mostly held in the
team. We invest in the early signs that the founders can execute on their
vision. At series A companies usually have some product-market fit validation
and enter the stage where they need to double down on their winning
strategies. Series B lays the foundation for a startup to grow to unicorn
levels.

# Following the monthly trend, 40% of the deals were in DeFi & Fintech.



![Web 3 funding: Q2 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/07/Screenshot-2020-07-10-at-16.18.00.png)

_Source: Crunchbase_

Companies that raised within Q2 2020 in DeFi & Fintech are working in 14
niches. Exchanges topped the chart with 22% or 8 deals. Closely followed by
Trading platforms, Banking and Lending. Unexpectedly infrastructure, financial
middleware and payments were only represented by 2 deals each. This was
somewhat surprising given that we do not necessarily have the robust
foundations for programmable money yet. Experimentation is in full swing, so
we’re following the space closely.

# DeFi & Fintech also attracted almost half of the funding with appr. $93
million committed.



![Web 3 funding: Q2 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/07/Screenshot-2020-07-10-at-16.25.28.png)



_Source: Crunchbase_

Consulting companies including blockchain service businesses raised almost $30
million wile Infrastructure companies raised $26 million. Everybody else
failed to attract more than $3 million per category (in total for the
quarter).

# The most common round for Q2 2020 was seed.

# ![Web 3 funding: Q2 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/07/Screenshot-2020-07-10-at-16.30.00.png)



_Source: Crunchbase_

**Equity seed funding proved to be the most attractive** stage for Q2 2020. We
did see 4 token rounds and 1 acquisition but equity funding is still the most
popular across professional investors. Grants are also a new way of funding
early stage projects’ product development. Europe has some great
opportunities. Also ledger projects have committed grants for developers
building on their networks, e.g. Streamr, Ethereum, Cosmos, Tezos, Web 3
Foundation (Polkadot). If you are building on a ledger, it is worth exploring
their options. Some projects like Near and Evernym even have accelerators
available. We are all in this together and have the same goal - **adoption**.
This is also the driver behind our Base Camp accelerator program (Outlier
Ventures).

# Less than a tenth of all funded startups in Q2 2020 are building in
Infrastructure.

![Web 3 funding: Q2 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/07/Screenshot-2020-07-10-at-16.14.07.png)



_Source: Crunchbase_

# Followed by another 5% building companies enabling enterprise adoption of
DLT.

Enterprise is a boring category. However, without normalising decentralised
technology for the big companies we cannot keep innovating. Enterprises will
bring dealflow and volume unparalleled to consumer adoption. This will allow
us to innovate with more and more users onboard. The current state of 100 to
200 daily active users for DeFi is way too small for testing.

# The US is leading the way followed by Asia, Europe and the UK.

![Web 3 funding: Q2 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/07/Screenshot-2020-07-10-at-16.33.00.png)



_Source: Crunchbase_

**We had 2 decades of development of the tech industry in the UK and Europe
and less than a decade in Web 3.** Things are picking up. But when we look at
it compared to the US we still have a long way to go. Web 3 companies raised
over $100 million across 31 deals in the US despite the regulatory
environment. Europe saw 17 deals and $29 million in funding. The UK saw some
very small raises ending up with 12 deals and only $3 million in funding.

# Investors are active again.

March and April were busy times for the investors. Everyone was busy with
portfolio companies and emergency boards. Then in May and June they gradually
freed up and started looking at their pipelines. Some have already started
proactively sourcing and looking at deals. And let’s not forget the 33 funds
that closed over 3 billion EUR in the same quarter! See for yourself
[here](http://mail01.tinyletterapp.com/euroVCs/q2-20-european-vc-fundraising-
note/17450438-docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1crdfzhxlqat04xe7qo-p48wxq00gwjyrzghsb3yvip0/edit?c=72606900-f331-42f2-a1be-6548c973068d)
by [Euro VCs](https://tinyletter.com/euroVCs/archive).



## Join our growing ecosystem

Outlier Ventures is all about building an ecosystem that collectively strives
to drive innovation and progress within the world of Web 3. We’re always
looking for amazing mentors, investors and Web 3 enthusiasts to join us on
this journey. Let us know how you want to be involved at
[basecamp@outlierventures.io](mailto:basecamp@outlierventures.io) .

If you’re a startup interested in joining a future Base Camp programme, please
register your interest
[**here**](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd2APcsAAiJyWl43vivgE2brubcheYEwOWofVw_6AV032vX-A/viewform).

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

