[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Web 3 funding: July 2020 in numbers

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Web 3 funding: July 2020 in numbers

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/ov_ana-150x150.jpg)

August 2020

Posted by

Ana-Maria Yanakieva

Investment Manager

Ana-Maria is also responsible for the identification and implementation of new
Outlier Venture’s Base Camp deals with a specific focus on fundraising, go-to-
market planning, and overseeing the full investor relations process for the
accelerator....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/ana-maria-
yanakieva/)

It’s August and everyone in Europe seems to be on holiday. The summer tends to
be a dead season, but this year’s July fundraising numbers proved us wrong.
Founders and investors were busier than ever in the UK, Europe and the US.
**Continuing the tradition I am looking into the fundraising data for the
second quarter of the year to get a comprehensive view of the state of web3.**
I am doing this every month to see how the true effect of COVID-19 unravels in
the Web 3 world in near real time across 5 charts. [**See Q2 2020 numbers
here.**](https://outlierventures.io/research/web-3-funding-q2-2020-in-
numbers/)

Posted by Ana-Maria Yanakieva - August 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/ov_ana-150x150.jpg)

August 2020

Posted by

Ana-Maria Yanakieva

Investment Manager

Ana-Maria is also responsible for the identification and implementation of new
Outlier Venture’s Base Camp deals with a specific focus on fundraising, go-to-
market planning, and overseeing the full investor relations process for the
accelerator....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/ana-maria-
yanakieva/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

# July set almost a record since the pandemic with 29 deals and over $254
million raised. This is more than what we did for the entire Q2 2020.

![Web 3 funding: July 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/08/Screenshot-2020-08-05-at-18.38.44.png)

_Source: Crunchbase and The Block_

The median raise this month was up by $1.5 million and reached $3.4 million
across 7 different verticals. The massive difference this month comes from
token sales. For the first time in the past 3 years equity and tokens saw
almost the same amounts of funding from seed to Series B stage.

#

# Exceeding the yearly trend, 72% of the deals were in DeFi & Fintech.

![Web 3 funding: July 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/08/Screenshot-2020-08-05-at-18.39.00.png)

_Source: Crunchbase and The Block_

Companies that raised in July and are working on DeFi & Fintech are spread
across 14 niches. This time around Liquidity providers and protocols topped
the chart with 19% or 4 deals. A new niche we are seeing to pop up more and
more is cross-blockchain swaps. While not a new technology and many started
more than 2 years ago, now it seems like the perfect time for such a product
and in markets timing is everything. Being too early to a market is not always
an advantage.

Stablecoins, lending and exchanges continue to see deals and new challengers
popping up. Another interesting category that we saw coming is Aggregators.
These usually start coming in once we are seeing some market maturity. While
many will disagree with me, I do think we are reaching the levels where having
platforms to find the best lending, staking or farming deal becomes a
lucrative business. Experimentation is in full swing, so we’re following the
space closer than ever.

> If you are a founder looking at the future of finance, drop me a
> [message](https://twitter.com/ana_yanakieva)!

#

# DeFi & Fintech also attracted almost half of the funding with appr. $140
million committed!

1-4-0 million, yes, that’s right. You may be laughing at the yield farming
memes and people playing with CLO^2 but investors are seeing some real
potential. One good thing about market cycles is at the end of each stage we
are coming out with amazing pieces of tech, learnings and insights that we can
apply to various scenarios. Remember the ICOs? Well, some lost money but as a
community we ended up with some great core infrastructure that we can build
on.

#

# Less than a tenth of all funded startups in July are building in
Infrastructure and middleware.

![Web 3 funding: July 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/08/Screenshot-2020-08-05-at-18.38.44.png)

_Source: Crunchbase and The Block_

Yes, I didn't even have to change the title here. It is the same trend as in
Q2 2020. The interesting part is that the funding here is mostly follow ons.
We have Polkadot’s newest sale, Everledger’s bridge financing (debt) and The
Graph’s $5 million private sale.

#

# Music, Privacy Tech & Identity, Gaming and Cybersecurity closed 1 deal in
each category.

Audius, HOPR, Sorare and Valid Network all closed their seeds and Series As!
Particularly interested to be following Privacy Tech and Identity in the
coming months. In the Web 2 world the 4 biggest tech CEOs faced hearings and
privacy concerns around TikTok were some of the hottest topics this past week.
Whether you like it or not, the Internet is where we live. Especially after 4
months of lockdown globally. And we should be treating it as our home. The
German population is one of the most aware of privacy issues with over 40% of
the population expressing concerns. It is a massive market riddled with
dilemmas and paradoxes of all kinds including ethics, human behaviour,
politics, power and money.

> If you are a founder building in privacy tech and/or identity, drop me a
> [message](https://twitter.com/ana_yanakieva)!

Another interesting theme is gaming. It is no longer only the nerds who will
bond over multiplayers or LAN parties. Some executives have tried and saw
success bonding with prospects over Fortnight and GTA. It is a massive market,
growing quickly and seeing mass adoption across mobile, PC and console.
Definitely keeping my tabs on it.

#

# The most common round for July was ~~seed~~ public token sales.

![Web 3 funding: July 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/08/Screenshot-2020-08-05-at-19.26.07.png)

_Source: Crunchbase and The Block_

While equities and tokens attracted almost the same amount of $ this month, 11
companies chose to go with a live token while 8 did their seed and 7 did their
series A. Two went with private sales and one received series B, and one
received bridge financing.

If we look at the charts below, we notice some very interesting dynamics this
month that we haven’t seen in the past 3 years.

![Web 3 funding: July 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/08/Screenshot-2020-08-05-at-18.39.38.png)

#

# Europe is leading the way followed by the US, the UK, Asia and Africa.

![Web 3 funding: July 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/08/Screenshot-2020-08-06-at-13.10.00.png)

_Source: Crunchbase_

This time around Europe 11 deals and attracted the most $$. Europe saw 11
raises at the total amount of $135 million! Yes, 1-3-5. The US saw $89 million
in raises across 9 deals. Out of the $135 million for Europe, the UK saw $25
million across 7 deals. European ecosystem lagged behind on Web 1, worked very
hard on Web 2 and are finally seeing some great communities with Web 3.

![Web 3 funding: July 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/08/Screenshot-2020-08-05-at-18.40.07-1-e1596655202844.png)

#

# Investors are active again.

March and April were busy times for the investors. Everyone was busy with
portfolio companies and emergency board meetings. Then in May and June they
gradually freed up and started looking at their pipelines. Some even started
proactively sourcing and looking at deals.

The most active investors that committed to more than 2 deals in July were:

  * DCG
  * Framework Ventures
  * Maven 11 Capital
  * ParaFi Capital
  * Lightspeed Venture Partners
  * Coinbase Ventures
  * Three Arrows Capital
  * Pantera Capital.

Congrats to all our fellow investors and all founders who worked hard during
the pandemic to negotiate these deals.

Also let’s not forget the 33 funds that closed over 3 billion EUR in the same
quarter! See for yourself
[here](http://mail01.tinyletterapp.com/euroVCs/q2-20-european-vc-fundraising-
note/17450438-docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1crdfzhxlqat04xe7qo-p48wxq00gwjyrzghsb3yvip0/edit?c=72606900-f331-42f2-a1be-6548c973068d)
by [Euro VCs](https://tinyletter.com/euroVCs/archive).

# Join our growing ecosystem

Outlier Ventures is all about building an ecosystem that collectively strives
to drive innovation and progress within the world of Web 3. We’re always
looking for amazing mentors, investors and Web 3 enthusiasts to join us on
this journey. Let us know how you want to be involved at
[basecamp@outlierventures.io.](mailto:basecamp@outlierventures.io)

If you’re a startup interested in joining a future Base Camp programme, please
register your interest
[**here**](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd2APcsAAiJyWl43vivgE2brubcheYEwOWofVw_6AV032vX-A/viewform).

##

##

## Follow Ana on social media

[ANA.vc](http://ana.vc) | [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ana_yanakieva) |
[Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ana-maria-yanakieva/)

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

