[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Web 3 funding: August 2020 in numbers

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Web 3 funding: August 2020 in numbers

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/ov_ana-150x150.jpg)

September 2020

Posted by

Ana-Maria Yanakieva

Investment Manager

Ana-Maria is also responsible for the identification and implementation of new
Outlier Venture’s Base Camp deals with a specific focus on fundraising, go-to-
market planning, and overseeing the full investor relations process for the
accelerator....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/ana-maria-
yanakieva/)

August was more active than ever in Web 3 world. **Continuing the tradition I
am looking into the fundraising data for the second quarter of the year to get
a comprehensive view of the state of web3.** I am doing this every month to
see how the true effect of COVID-19 unravels in the Web 3 world in near real
time across 5 charts. [**See July 2020 numbers
here.**](https://outlierventures.io/research/web-3-funding-july-2020-in-
numbers/)

Posted by Ana-Maria Yanakieva - September 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/ov_ana-150x150.jpg)

September 2020

Posted by

Ana-Maria Yanakieva

Investment Manager

Ana-Maria is also responsible for the identification and implementation of new
Outlier Venture’s Base Camp deals with a specific focus on fundraising, go-to-
market planning, and overseeing the full investor relations process for the
accelerator....[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/ana-maria-
yanakieva/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

# August keeps on setting records with 24 deals and $278 million raised. This
is more than what we did for the entire Q2 2020.

![Web 3 funding: August 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/09/Screenshot-2020-09-11-at-22.49.38.png)

_Source: Crunchbase and The Block_

The median raise this month was $2.9 million across 5 different verticals. The
massive difference this month again comes from token sales. For the first time
in the past 3 years public token sales saw more funding than equity ranging
from seed to Series B stage.

#

# 62% of the deals were in DeFi & Fintech.

![Web 3 funding: August 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/09/Screenshot-2020-09-11-at-22.50.15.png)

_Source: Crunchbase and The Block_

Companies that raised in August and working on DeFi & Fintech are spread
across 7 niches appearing that DeFi may be converging to a few areas. This
time around Derivatives tech and exchanges topped the chart with a third of
all DeFi deals. Lending and liquidity are still going strong. Sushi’s
controversial success is spurring a new batch of decentralised exchanges. The
question is whether there will be a new inflow of capital providing liquidity,
so more traders can join or they will all fight for the same users turning the
market into a ‘red sea’. My theory is that exchanges, centralised or
decentralised, are fundamentally natural monopolies. Let’s see if I get proven
wrong here driven by total market growth.

> **If you are a founder looking at the future of finance, drop me
> a[message](https://twitter.com/ana_yanakieva) and apply to Base Camp
> [here](http://outlierventures.io/base-camp)!**

Stablecoins, consumer tech and aggregators continue to see deals and new
challengers popping up. We are seeing some market maturity although customer
acquisitions has slowed down a bit there. We are definitely reaching the
levels where having platforms to find the best lending, staking or farming
deal becomes a lucrative business. Experimentation is in full swing, so we’re
following the space closer than ever. On consumer tech, mainstream is most
likely not going to jump on DeFi as it is super technical and we will need
Bitcoin moves to attract more people. Some encouraging stats from [Mode
Banking](https://modebanking.com/2020/08/05/83-of-bitcoin-holders-in-uk-turn-
to-crypto-interest-accounts-as-bank-of-england-explores-negative-rates/) show
more people consider parking their savings in crypto in an unclear macro
environment.

# DeFi & Fintech also attracted almost half of the funding with appr. $138
million committed!

You may be laughing at the yield farming memes and the speculators (a.k.a the
degens) but investors from all backgrounds are seeing some real potential. One
good thing about market cycles is at the end of each stage we are coming out
with amazing pieces of tech, learnings and insights that we can apply to
various scenarios. Remember the ICOs? Well, some lost money but as a community
we ended up with some great core infrastructure that we can build on. The most
interesting part of it is that some institutional investors keep betting on
low level financial infrastructure around custody and derivatives.

# 24% are building in Infrastructure and Ledgers. Less than a tenth are in
Gaming and Edtech.

![Web 3 funding: August 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/09/Screenshot-2020-09-11-at-22.49.38.png)

_Source: Crunchbase and The Block_

Near Protocol raised another $33million for building scalable infra. Also
Outlier Ventures’ backed DIA and Sperax successfully completed public
distributions. This goes to show we have built a lot of infrastructure in the
past 3 years but there is a lot to go. Ethereum gas fees are paralyzing a lot
of consumer businesses and many new founders keep turning to centralised tech
stacks in the early days to avoid these issues. We can do better!

Another interesting theme is gaming. It is no longer only the nerds who will
bond over multiplayers or LAN parties. Some executives have tried and saw
success bonding with prospects over Fortnight and GTA. It is a massive market,
growing quickly and seeing mass adoption across mobile, PC and console.
Definitely keeping my tabs on it. Sandbox and Infinite Fleet are two of the
promising gaming startups in the space. Many more to come with the Metaverse
development.

> **If you are a founder building in the Metaverse, drop me
> a[message](https://twitter.com/ana_yanakieva) and apply to Base Camp
> [here](http://outlierventures.io/base-camp)!**

# The most common round for August was ~~seed~~ public token sales.

![Web 3 funding: August 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/09/Screenshot-2020-09-11-at-22.50.54.png)

_Source: Crunchbase and The Block_

14 companies chose to go live with their tokens while 6 did their seed, Acala
and Uniswap did their series A and BlockFi did a series C. Infinite Fleet went
with a private sale.

If we look at the charts below, we notice some very interesting dynamics this
month that we haven’t seen in the past 3 years like having two thirds of all
funding to go to token sales.

![Web 3 funding: August 2020 in numbers Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2020/09/Screenshot-2020-09-11-at-22.51.03.png)

# Investors are active again.

March and April were busy times for the investors. Everyone was busy with
portfolio companies and emergency board meetings. Then in May and June they
gradually freed up and started looking at their pipelines. Some even started
proactively sourcing and looking at deals.

The most active investors that committed to more than 2 deals in August were:

  * Arrington XRP Capital
  * CMT Digital
  * Altonomy
  * Galaxy Digital
  * Polychain Capital.

Congrats to all of our fellow investors and all founders who worked hard
during the pandemic to negotiate these deals. It was very interesting to see
CMT Digital and CMS Holding who keep doing corporate investments.

## Join our growing ecosystem

Outlier Ventures is all about building an ecosystem that collectively strives
to drive innovation and progress within the world of Web 3. We’re always
looking for amazing mentors, investors and Web 3 enthusiasts to join us on
this journey. Let us know how you want to be involved at
basecamp@outlierventures.io .

> **If you’re a startup interested in joining a future Base Camp program,
> please apply
> here[here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd2APcsAAiJyWl43vivgE2brubcheYEwOWofVw_6AV032vX-A/viewform).**

## Follow Ana on social media

[ANA.vc](http://ana.vc/) | [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ana_yanakieva) |
[Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ana-maria-yanakieva/)

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

