[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ¬∑

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![What is AKASHA Reloaded? What is Ethereum
World?](/static/e4b303871e479a3bf8688e1728d87c2b/2a43b/what-is.jpg)

[Community](/blog/category/community/)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

## What is AKASHA Reloaded? What is Ethereum World?

By [Joshua Long](/blog/author/joshua-long/)

¬∑

November 21, 2019

This year (2019), on World Press Freedom Day, we announced that we were going
through a process dubbed 'AKASHA Reloaded' through the post [_AKASHA Reloaded:
Three Spins Around The Sun Later_](https://akasha.org/blog/2019/05/03/akasha-
reloaded) _._ Since then we have been in constant awe of the positive response
that has come back to us from the community, as well as the number of
individuals who have signed up for Early Access.

At Devcon 5, which took place this October in Osaka, Japan, we made a further
announcement in a presentation entitled [AKASHA Reloaded: Unifying the
Ecosystem with Ethereum World](https://youtu.be/CaMXa6R-jyI).

_Two big announcements, but how are they linked?_

With AKASHA between 2016 and 2018 we focussed our efforts on building a dapp;
if Ethereum is this decentralized app platform, like a decentralized app
store, we tried to put one of these dapps in that decentralized app store,
with the functionality of that dapp being a social network running on
Ethereum.

_Since then, our understanding of what can we do to maximize the impact that
we have has changed._

**What is AKASHA Reloaded?** üí≠üèóÔ∏è

The greatest thing that we can achieve, considering that we are just a handful
of people is to actually build a framework, and the process of moving from
working on a single dapp to working on a deployable framework has been named
'AKASHA Reloaded'.

Even though it's not a very accurate comparison, it helps maybe to imagine
this new Framework, the AKASHA World Framework (AWF), as kind of like a
WordPress for social networks where people and communities can deploy their
own customized, purpose-built, purposeful social networks fulfilling whatever
needs they have as a community.

**What is Ethereum World?** üí≠üåé

[Ethereum World](https://ethereum.world/) will be the first network that runs
using the AKASHA World Framework; the purpose of Ethereum World is to unify
the Ethereum ecosystem by integrating decentralized apps into a simple,
delightful social experience.

[Our research into the Ethereum
Community](https://akasha.org/blog/2019/10/01/how-do-you-define-the-word-
community/) showed us that there was a need for interactions with
decentralized applications to be made simpler and more fun for the people
using them. Chuck into the mix the fact that all of these separate pieces of
functionality have the potential to work together in interesting new ways and
you have a whole new world of social interactions. For example, one could
create a DAO, post underneath it with a link to a proposal, then next with a
bounty, and then finish off the stream with a non-fungible token collectible
for the people that participated in this flow.

The collective intelligence present within the Ethereum Community is vital to
the success of both the AWF and Ethereum World, and so this is the first world
that people will be able to visit. Gazing into the future, we want this to
eventually be one world of many.

**What is all of this about?** üèóÔ∏èüí•üåé

A piece of thinking which has run through everything that we've ever done is
that Ethereum is a WORDL-changing piece of technology. Currently the majority
of the mediums that we use for communication and/or collaboration either
manipulate us or profit from us. Most profoundly, these platforms also do not
provide the functionality necessary to equip people with the tools that they
need to bring about the change that they want to see in the world.

Decentralized, censorship-resistant, customizable networks can help to take
some of that [21-million years of collective time that is spent on corporate-
owned, surveillance systems every 24
hours](https://akasha.org/blog/2019/05/03/diving-into-the-oceans-of-time-
metamorphosis-part2), and redirect it so that it serves to help us, rather
than help those who seek to gather data, influence, and profit from us.

**Let 's journey to many new, purpose-built, purposeful worlds, together.**

[Community](/blog/category/community/)

[News](/blog/category/news/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 ‚Äî Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 ‚Äî Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt‚Ä¶

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

Mar√≠a Sanmart√≠n and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and‚Ä¶

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 ‚Äî Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 ‚Äî Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized‚Ä¶

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ¬∑

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2019/11/21/what-
is-akasha-reloaded-what-is-ethereum-world)

