![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/what-the-global-vpn-markets-explosive-growth-means-for-orchid/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/what-the-global-vpn-markets-explosive-growth-means-for-orchid/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/what-the-global-vpn-markets-explosive-growth-means-for-orchid/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/what-the-global-vpn-markets-explosive-growth-means-for-orchid/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/what-the-global-vpn-markets-explosive-growth-means-for-orchid/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/what-the-global-vpn-markets-explosive-growth-means-for-orchid/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![What the global VPN market’s explosive growth means for
Orchid](/static/4775d4f7682917f93be566faf65a1684/Orchid_BlogImage_VPNGrowth.jpg)

# What the global VPN market’s explosive growth means for Orchid

Aug 31, 2020  
  

The global VPN market, currently valued at US$29.2 billion, is projected to
[grow to almost $90
billion](https://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/4845864/virtual-private-
network-vpn-global-
market#:~:text=Amid%20the%20COVID%2D19%20crisis,the%20analysis%20period%202020%2D2027.)
by 2027 -- an annual growth rate of over 15%. VPNs are one of the fastest-
growing areas of the technology space, as well as of the global economy more
broadly. There are now more than 1 billion VPN users around the world, and
this number is poised to multiply.

People are turning to VPNs for reasons as diverse as their own lives,
livelihoods, and interests. While Orchid is designed to be unable to collect
data on users, a few have been kind enough to [share their experiences](/how-
people-are-reclaiming-internet-freedom-from-dubai-to-ukraine-to-venezuela/)
using the app in various countries around the world. Their reasons for using
Orchid range from needing reliable video conferencing to finding their way
around town, to listening to their favorite music. Businesspeople use VPNs to
protect sensitive information while connected to public wi-fi, and journalists
use them to stay safe in dangerous parts of the world. What they all share is
a desire to use the Internet freely, no matter where they are or what they do.

**Growth in Internet usage is driving demand**

While individual reasons vary, a key factor driving VPN growth everywhere is
the expanding use of mobile and wireless devices around the world. Our lives
are increasingly digital, connected, and mobile-first, with almost [a million
people](https://datareportal.com/global-digital-
overview#:~:text=There%20are%204.57%20billion%20internet,950%2C000%20new%20users%20each%20day.)
accessing the Internet for the first time each day. In a world reshaped by a
pandemic that has forced so much of life into virtual spaces, the need for
online privacy has only grown more urgent. Yet though [large
majorities](https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2016/09/21/the-state-of-
privacy-in-america/) say online data security is important to them, the vast
majority also feel powerless and vulnerable when they use the Internet.

So it should be no surprise that the VPN market is seeing such explosive
growth. Demand for VPN providers is global, with millions of users across the
world's leading economies. Yet despite its rapid expansion, the market has an
enormous amount of room to grow. Although a large and growing number of people
now use a VPN at least occasionally, the market is far from saturated. In no
country do more than a third of Internet users report using a VPN in the past
month, and in most places the number is less than 20%. With an estimated [4.3
billion Internet users](https://www.globalwebindex.com/reports/vpn-usage-
around-the-world) around the world -- a figure that grows by the day --
billions of new people may begin to seek out VPN service in the next few
years.

![VPN Usage by country](/img/uploads/Orchid_BlogImage_VPNGrowth-01.png)

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

**How Orchid satisfies the world's growing privacy needs**

As demand for VPN service grows over the next several years, Orchid's unique,
decentralized marketplace is positioned to offer the swelling ranks of users
the bandwidth they need, when they need it. Orchid allows people to use the
services of multiple leading VPN providers, including [LiquidVPN](/orchid-
partners-with-liquidvpn/), [PIA](/pia-bringing-trusted-private-bandwidth-to-
orchid-users/), [Tenta](https://tenta.com/),
[Boleh](https://www.bolehvpn.net/), and [VPNSecure](/orchid-partners-with-
vpnsecure/), and even combine them by configuring multiple "[hops](/what-is-a-
hop/#:~:text=Hops%20is%20how%20we%20at,exiting%E2%80%9D%20to%20its%20destination%20webpage.&text=Hops%20on%20Orchid%20can%20be,add%20additional%20layers%20of%20indirection.)."

Service on Orchid is is pay-as-you-go, and the network's system of
[probabilistic nanopayments](/introducing-nanopayments/) matches supply with
demand while obfuscating users' payment information. By combining the best
privacy innovations with unique incentives for bandwidth providers, Orchid is
able to offer people the strongest level of online privacy currently
available. Perhaps most importantly, Orchid is friendly and easy to use. Just
download the app and [purchase an Orchid credit](/orchid-launches-in-apple-
app-store/) to get started -- no wallets or cryptocurrencies needed.

**Privacy is booming, and Orchid is leading the charge**

The global VPN market stands poised to grow exponentially over the coming
years, driven by increasing volumes of digital activity, particularly on
mobile devices. Orchid is ready to meet this demand, offering people the
strongest Internet privacy with friendly, easy-to-use apps for mobile and
desktop. Privacy is Orchid's mission, and we're using the most innovative
technologies to build a VPN marketplace that meets the needs of the global
Internet community. This is big, and it's just the beginning.

[Download the Orchid app](https://www.orchid.com/download) to start exploring
the Internet freely.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [VPN](/tag/vpn/)
  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22What%20the%20global%20VPN%20market%E2%80%99s%20explosive%20growth%20means%20for%20Orchid%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fwhat-
the-global-vpn-markets-explosive-growth-means-for-orchid%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fwhat-
the-global-vpn-markets-explosive-growth-means-for-orchid%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fwhat-
the-global-vpn-markets-explosive-growth-means-for-orchid%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/what-does-a-vpn-hide/)

#### What does a VPN hide?

](/what-does-a-vpn-hide/)

Apr 15, 2021

](/what-is-split-tunneling/)

[

#### What is split tunneling?

](/what-is-split-tunneling/)

May 3, 2021

](/why-ordinary-people-are-turning-to-vpns/)

[

#### Why Ordinary People Are Turning to VPNs

](/why-ordinary-people-are-turning-to-vpns/)

Jul 14, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

