[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/d7e8fdfc207d&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![POAP](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*8ha1Vei7ERHf2SdDiAgHTw.jpeg)](https://medium.com/poap?source=post_page
-----d7e8fdfc207d--------------------------------)

Published in

[POAP

](https://medium.com/poap?source=post_page-----
d7e8fdfc207d--------------------------------)

[![Cooper Turley](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/1*oC9rEq2_c-
LEquy79BfOAQ.jpeg)](/@coopahtroopa-eth?source=post_page-----
d7e8fdfc207d--------------------------------)

[Cooper Turley](/@coopahtroopa-eth?source=post_page-----
d7e8fdfc207d--------------------------------)

Follow

Mar 23, 2020

·

4 min read

# What is POAP?

For anyone who’s been to one of Ethereum’s many magical events, you’ve
probably seen mystic QR codes floating around on pink rosetta’s with the label
“POAP”

Maybe you knew to scan that QR code and redeem the token to your Ethereum
address as prompted!

 _But what did you actually receive?_

> [POAP](https://www.poap.xyz/) — short for Proof of Attendance Protocol — are
> digital badges given to nomads as a way to prove their attendance at any of
> our partnered events.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*tz6Tg4meXwo3Vi5lfFIIkg.png)

Each badge is unique, meaning the only way to get a POAP is to actually be at
the event.

Each event has a custom design, meaning POAPs quickly turn into a rare
collection of coveted NFTs which can only be earned by travelling the world to
one of Ethereum’s most sought after gatherings.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*6Ee62h9aJU2wnR0-pOuTMQ.jpeg)

My POAP Collection! :D

We’ve created an intuitive [iOS](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/poap-
wallet/id1473716619?ls=1) &
[Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=xyz.explorer.poap)
mobile application to showcase your gallery to friends, casually displaying
your endless adventures by leveraging the awesome capabilities of the ERC721
token standard.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*uHKeF_UhCCV_Mcw4f83mQQ.png)

[Download](https://www.poap.xyz/) the POAP mobile wallet on iOS and Google
Play!

#  **Why Should I Care?**

 _What if you could prove that you were at one of Apple’s earliest off-sights
in Silicon Valley before the company blew up?_

 _What if you could prove you were at the hackathon where projects like
Gitcoin, Set Protocol or PoolTogether were started?_

In a nascent industry like that of cryptocurrencies, POAP offers a new way to
prove your commitment to Ethereum before it was cool.

Whether you’re hoping to be the top vagabond on the [POAP
leaderboard](https://etherscan.io/token/0x22c1f6050e56d2876009903609a2cc3fef83b415#balances)
or simply looking to curate a sentimental collection of indestructible,
timeless badges — we’ve got you covered!

What’s more, is that POAP badges contain an endless amount of potential which
we’re just now starting to tap into! We’ll dive deeper into these in a future
article, but for now here are some use-cases which might tickle your mind:

  * Community Polls
  * Conference Discounts
  * Expedited Hackathon Reviews
  * Airdrop Targeting
  * Social Graphs
  * Undercollateralized Lending
  * VIP Parties
  * \+ more!

Vitalik suggesting a POAP vote to solve the ProgPoW debate!

# Where Has POAP Been?

To date, POAP has worked with over 100 events, all of which have led to the
redemption of [7000
badges](https://etherscan.io/token/0x22c1f6050e56d2876009903609a2cc3fef83b415#balances).

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*rFSR9WKTIKbau29wlucp6Q.png)

Screenshot of unique POAPs from March 2020

Some of the more eternal events include:

  * EthCC (Paris, France)
  * Devcon (Osaka, Japan)
  * Dappcon (Berlin, Germany)
  * EthDenver (Colorado, USA)
  * EthGlobal (Waterloo, Boston, Bangalore, London, etc)

We’ve had the pleasure of working directly with the best and brightest minds
in Ethereum and are only just getting started!

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*BT--UBkaT0bdl1GLAWko4g.jpeg)

Photo take at ETHNYC (2019)

But first, let’s talk about our roots.

#  **POAP’s Origin**

POAP was created during ETHDenver 2019 as a [hackathon
project](https://kauri.io/poap-submission/f444b199f5814e6397aaa9b9bd42494f/a)
to reward fellow hackers for their attendance at one of the most versatile
events in the world.

We wanted to showcase some of the things Ethereum could do that simply weren’t
possible with any other tech stacks, and we believe immutable attendance
badges are just one example of that!

The project was — and still is — entirely [volunteer-
based](https://gitcoin.co/grants/490/poap-proof-of-attendance-
protocol?tab=description), meaning that we’ve been lucky enough to receive
contributions from top developers, organizers and influencers during this wild
journey we call the Ethereum circuit.

Our first Medium post dives into that journey, which we highly recommend
checking out!

[

## POAP retrospective of 2019

### (And plans for 2020)

medium.com

](/poap/poap-retrospective-of-2019-b5b2181e054e)

What’s emerged is an identity system for building digital reputation and
enabling social coordination. Now we can start conducting prime research
initiatives based on different datasets like:

 _“How many people who went to ETHCC opened a CDP or adding liquidity to a
Uniswap pool?”_

Or, something more provoking like:

 _“What’s the oldest wallet with a POAP? Which one holds the most Ether?”_

> POAP is the most used Ethereum application that isn’t doing anything
> monetary. We believe this is just the tip of the iceberg.

#  **What to Expect**

In the coming months, we’ll be rolling out a suite of new POAP swag.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*t6wiFuVA8uw6Ls9RMMkokg.jpeg)

Sneak peek at what’s to come ;)

If you or your event are interested in teaming up, [give us a
shout](https://t.me/poapxyz)!

Until then, safe travels!

##  **Connect With POAP**

[Twitter](http://twitter.com/poapxyz)|[Telegram](http://t.me/poapxyz)|[Discord](http://poap.xyz/discord)|[Github](http://github.com/poapxyz)|[Website](http://poap.xyz)|[Reddit](http://reddit.com/r/poap)

Thanks to [POAP](https://medium.com/u/6267d2edc9d5?source=post_page-----
d7e8fdfc207d--------------------------------) & [DeFi
Dude](https://medium.com/u/cf33e7c96ef6?source=post_page-----
d7e8fdfc207d--------------------------------)

\--

1

\--

\--

1

## [More from POAP](/poap?source=post_page-----
d7e8fdfc207d--------------------------------)

Proof of Attendance Protocol

[Read more from POAP](/poap?source=post_page-----
d7e8fdfc207d--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![Nirav Gala,
CFA](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Gwmhlf7DvuArSe4T5IC1Og.jpeg)](/@niravgala?source=post_internal_links
---------0----------------------------)

[Nirav Gala, CFA

](/@niravgala?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

in

[Fabrik Thoughts

](https://medium.com/fabrik-thoughts?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## ICO Due Diligence: Caveat Emptor - 5 checks that every Investor must do

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*VMDEs6XHwiqfPsz8.jpg)](/fabrik-
thoughts/ico-due-diligence-caveat-
emptor-93dc4de52a89?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![Elfi
Sixt](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*-_9PBvP6VTRG_cSCpHXIlw.png)](/@ebit4u?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[Elfi Sixt

](/@ebit4u?source=post_internal_links---------1----------------------------)

in

[Crypto42com

](https://medium.com/crypto42com?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## WHY WE DECIDED TO SET UP THE CRYPTO42 WATCHDOG INITIATIVE!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*koBTDZ-
tNABnU-7DMXR7eg.png)](/crypto42com/why-we-decided-to-set-up-the-
crypto42-watchdog-c2d2ee038254?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Jamie
Burke](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*47BYItZSFd13mKaag8bBhA.jpeg)](/@jamieov?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Jamie Burke

](/@jamieov?source=post_internal_links---------2----------------------------)

in

[100xARt

](https://medium.com/100xart?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Definitive NFT / Art Influencer & Media Directory

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*aICIa04iI_VGIO03TscteA.png)](/100xart/definitive-
nft-art-influencer-media-directory-51584b8352dd?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[[![Pan
Grothaus](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*ZCF7Qr_bGJ0L43B_jMw68A.png)](/@pangrothaus?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[Pan Grothaus

](/@pangrothaus?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Will Play-To-Earn Games Still Be Fun?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*9LTDrbl5BNcoeN9ujMs3Yg.jpeg)](/@pangrothaus/will-
play-to-earn-games-still-be-fun-9581ee3787f0?source=post_internal_links
---------3----------------------------)

[[![Flamingo
Finance](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*BD0gT4okqRQx2AgTb32J2Q.jpeg)](/@flamingofinance?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Flamingo Finance

](/@flamingofinance?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

in

[Flamingo Finance

](https://medium.com/flamingo-finance?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Asset Flow Redesign & WETH Migration Launched

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*8rozZlwVW42hZxf7ipkr8w@2x.png)](/flamingo-
finance/asset-flow-redesign-weth-migration-
launched-8aaad4be5777?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![NewsCrypto.io](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*byOXIh4flhZenXbjnU4dzg.jpeg)](/@newscrypto?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[NewsCrypto.io

](/@newscrypto?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## NWC Weekly Development report: March 28 — April 4

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*umcbwaPoF7weIFkN.jpg)](/@newscrypto/nwc-
weekly-development-report-
march-28-april-4-4020e9f60441?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Konstellation Network
\(DARC\)](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*WFImX2u7kMaU5eY_SNKIEw.jpeg)](/@konstellation?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Konstellation Network (DARC)

](/@konstellation?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Announcement: Konstellation Is Partnering With a DAO!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*EAsJkCnuwpclmNNrZVsqxg.jpeg)](/@konstellation/announcement-
konstellation-is-partnering-with-a-dao-
darc-a02a7e9ddcde?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Fatedium](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*4ZzG6zYPFzJ04Z9oNT88hw.png)](/@fatedium?source=post_internal_links
---------7----------------------------)

[Fatedium

](/@fatedium?source=post_internal_links---------7----------------------------)

## IDO LAUNCH SOON

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*xDVhm33kfXb6Wwm5kFWWQw.png)](/@fatedium/ido-
launch-soon-997bfd7bd1ba?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----d7e8fdfc207d--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
d7e8fdfc207d--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
d7e8fdfc207d--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
d7e8fdfc207d--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
d7e8fdfc207d--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----d7e8fdfc207d--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----d7e8fdfc207d--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fpoap%2Fwhat-
is-poap-d7e8fdfc207d&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Cooper Turley](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/1*oC9rEq2_c-
LEquy79BfOAQ.jpeg)](/@coopahtroopa-eth)

[

## Cooper Turley

](/@coopahtroopa-eth)

1.1K Followers

Chance favors the connected mind. Focused on building communities by making
crypto cool again.

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fsubscriptions%2Fnewsletters%2F3c1ace0d372a&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fpoap%2Fwhat-
is-
poap-d7e8fdfc207d&newsletterV3=af8b40222d18&newsletterV3Id=3c1ace0d372a&user=Cooper+Turley&userId=af8b40222d18&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Gorilla Shops](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*szZpq-
UU7B9ceHPG.jpg)](/@gorillashops?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------a419406c_aeab_4c13_a1ba_513a19a01a9a-------)

[Gorilla Shops

](/@gorillashops?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
a419406c_aeab_4c13_a1ba_513a19a01a9a-------)

## Gorilla Shops — a growing community of artists

![The logo of Chara
Kit](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*piCTrteI2m8U4FGmWLmX8w.jpeg)](/@gorillashops/gorilla-
shops-a-growing-community-of-artists-3a14732f7194?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------a419406c_aeab_4c13_a1ba_513a19a01a9a-------)

[[![Dev
Protocol](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Z22Yia2enlGSPqtlPQHhYQ.gif)](/@devprotocol-
hq?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
a419406c_aeab_4c13_a1ba_513a19a01a9a-------)

[Dev Protocol

](/@devprotocol-hq?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
a419406c_aeab_4c13_a1ba_513a19a01a9a-------)

in

[Dev Protocol

](https://medium.com/devprtcl?source=read_next_recirc---------1
---------------------a419406c_aeab_4c13_a1ba_513a19a01a9a-------)

## Culture Clubs — sustainable support for creators and communities by
membership NFT

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*iMBdaOYcy1M19j1S7QHR7A.png)](/devprtcl/culture-
clubs-sustainable-support-for-creators-and-communities-by-membership-
nft-e2ef646c1fd0?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
a419406c_aeab_4c13_a1ba_513a19a01a9a-------)

[[![Adam
Levine](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Jm6SXnD7LfnUzFMFO4YfZA.jpeg)](/@binmaker?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------a419406c_aeab_4c13_a1ba_513a19a01a9a-------)

[Adam Levine

](/@binmaker?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
a419406c_aeab_4c13_a1ba_513a19a01a9a-------)

in

[DEX Labs

](https://medium.com/dex-labs?source=read_next_recirc---------2
---------------------a419406c_aeab_4c13_a1ba_513a19a01a9a-------)

## Introducing Hashes Collections!

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*nGfd51Ry01DLHQZcIX3fuw.png)](/dex-
labs/introducing-hashes-collections-ab50adb5f1a9?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------a419406c_aeab_4c13_a1ba_513a19a01a9a-------)

[[![Emily](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*APAZ3LRba-
wsIC3DHD5aQA.png)](/@emfromcor?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------a419406c_aeab_4c13_a1ba_513a19a01a9a-------)

[Emily

](/@emfromcor?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
a419406c_aeab_4c13_a1ba_513a19a01a9a-------)

in

[The Rebirth

](https://medium.com/the-rebirth?source=read_next_recirc---------3
---------------------a419406c_aeab_4c13_a1ba_513a19a01a9a-------)

## The Rebirth: A community experience of premium

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*H2p93scBo1vE9b_gz02jcQ.png)](/the-
rebirth/the-rebirth-a-community-experience-of-
premium-a57f73e0e098?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
a419406c_aeab_4c13_a1ba_513a19a01a9a-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

