[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# What happened at Diffusion 2019?

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

What happened at Diffusion 2019?

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_charlotte-150x150.jpg)

October 2019

Posted by

Charlotte Kapoor

Head of Strategic Partnerships

At Outlier Ventures Charlotte is responsible for building the profile of
Outlier Ventures by strengthening the connectedness in their ecosystem, from
founders and investors to academia and media. Charlotte is in the investment
committee at the firm, as well as overseeing communication for both Outlier
and their portfolio. Prior to working at Outlier Ventures Charlotte was a
Business Director at a range of different marketing agencies, helping clients
with product development, branding and growth. ...[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/charlotte-baker/)

# Diffusion 2019 was Outlier Ventures inaugural two-day devcon held in Berlin
on 19th and 20th October.



Posted by Charlotte Kapoor - October 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_charlotte-150x150.jpg)

October 2019

Posted by

Charlotte Kapoor

Head of Strategic Partnerships

At Outlier Ventures Charlotte is responsible for building the profile of
Outlier Ventures by strengthening the connectedness in their ecosystem, from
founders and investors to academia and media. Charlotte is in the investment
committee at the firm, as well as overseeing communication for both Outlier
and their portfolio. Prior to working at Outlier Ventures Charlotte was a
Business Director at a range of different marketing agencies, helping clients
with product development, branding and growth. ...[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/team/charlotte-baker/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/asm-and-ov-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-asm/) [Why we
invested in Altered State Machine (ASM)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-
invested-in-asm/)

April 2022  
Jamie Burke

[ ![OutlierVenturesInvestsinLumerin](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/03/why-we-invested-in-lumerin-
thumbnail.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-lumerin/) [Why
we invested in Lumerin](https://outlierventures.io/why-we-invested-in-
lumerin/)

March 2022  
Jamie Burke

Hundreds of developers, protocols, teams and individuals in the blockchain,
artificial intelligence and IoT space joined for two days of intense hacking,
talks and workshops at Factory Berlin. Our objective was to drive
interoperability by joining forces to grow Web3.

The tone and format of the event was not about crypto theatre, ego and noise,
it was strictly focused on collaboration and building. What made the event
unique was the resolute focus on growing the space _together_ , in an open
exchange of ideas between protocols and teams across the technology stack from
around the globe.

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_8721-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_8831-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_8524-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_8217-1100x575.jpg)

Open collaboration was both a key theme for the 26 different protocols in
attendance, but also in the audience themselves. The token engineering
community ran their first track in a hackathon, whilst T-Labs, ETH Berlin and
Odyssey Hack all ran their own tracks demonstrating the rich, diverse
ecosystem of participants. This breadth of alliances enabled more diversity;
important as we were building not only technology integrations but the
foundations of socio-economic systems which will be defined by those that
create them. The focus on creating a ‘big, open tent’ was also critical to
bring in the 99% of developers not currently in the space.

What this meant practically was an event that was made up of two key areas:

(1) a hackathon where technologies, mentors and developers could engage in
open dialogue about technical integration and applications, judged by theme
and technology at the end of the two days.

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_8169-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_8150-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_8106-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_8272-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_7144-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_7097-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_8280-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_8217-1-1100x575.jpg)

(2) a series of technical, short talks and workshops focused on building a
more equitable, secure, privacy-preserving, scalable and usable Web3.

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_7382-2-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_7504-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_7041-1-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_7574-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_7439-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_7666-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_7350-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_7483-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_7150-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_6869-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_7630-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_7505-1100x575.jpg)

Although Diffusion’s primary audience were developers, all components of the
space that will be needed to realise the technology (UX, data science,
engineering, business modeling etc.) were involved and able to gain
inspiration from the discussions.

There was a huge range of diversity in the talks and workshops, you can see a
sample of the agenda below:

Saturday 19th October:

![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/Screen-
Shot-2019-10-28-at-14.21.41-e1572273425961.png)

Sunday 20th October:

![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/Screen-
Shot-2019-10-28-at-14.21.49-e1572273461317.png)

“How do I get started, how do I actually implement things, and how do I move
fast?” Discussion throughout the hive of different floors in the old factory
consistently focused on “how” vs “what” and “why”. Attendees were eager for
more technical deep dives and the packed out token engineering workshop had to
be run multiple times to cater for the number of people who wanted to know
more. Hot topics also focused on the infrastructure of projects, both in terms
of getting started on building and integrating with new code, but also from a
legal, compliance and licensing standpoint.

There were big ideas, but what matters is that those ideas were executed upon.
There were 45 great submissions to the hackathon and winners built on almost
every technology within The Convergence Stack.

The full list of winners and prizes are hosted on DevPost
[here](https://diffusion2019.devpost.com/updates/10886-and-the-winners-are)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_9195-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_9172-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_9159-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_9149-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_9139-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_9113-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_9057-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_9061-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_9001-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_8972-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_8941-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_8873-1100x575.jpg)

  * ![What happened at Diffusion 2019? Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/IMG_8908-1100x575.jpg)



Thank you to everyone who was able to join us, either in person or virtually
on our live streams, to the supporters, sponsors and to all of the Outlier
Ventures ecosystem who put significant time, knowledge and energy into making
the event deliver what it set out to do. We can’t wait to see you at the next
Diffusion soon!

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

