[](/)

[Get unlimited access](/plans?source=upgrade_membership---
nav_full----------------------------------)

[Open in
app](https://rsci.app.link/?$canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com/p/202ddbfdf1bd&~feature=LoOpenInAppButton&~channel=ShowPostUnderCollection&~stage=mobileNavBar)

[](/)

[Home](/)

[Notifications](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fnotifications&source=--------------------------notifications_sidenav-----------)[Lists](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Flists&source=--------------------------lists_sidenav-----------)[Stories](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fme%2Fstories%2Fdrafts&source=--------------------------stories_sidenav-----------)

* * *

[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-
story&source=--------------------------new_post_sidenav-----------)

[![Fluidity](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/64/64/1*5pEAonqQtkWjGPLSudRP7g.png)](https://medium.com/fluidity?source=post_page
-----202ddbfdf1bd--------------------------------)

Published in

[Fluidity

](https://medium.com/fluidity?source=post_page-----
202ddbfdf1bd--------------------------------)

[![Maxime
Bucaille](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/96/96/2*QTeFbj9LOWF8VPC7AG_Bmw.jpeg)](/@maximebucaille?source=post_page
-----202ddbfdf1bd--------------------------------)

[Maxime Bucaille](/@maximebucaille?source=post_page-----
202ddbfdf1bd--------------------------------)

Follow

Dec 10, 2019

·

5 min read

# Why Be a Maker on AirSwap?

 _Find out why makers prefer AirSwap over the alternatives. With no trading
fees, no deposits, and no costly price updates to on-chain order books,
AirSwap is a flexible and efficient network full of opportunities._

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*O9y26DtauMAEieZM)

Blockchain technology aims to remove centralized parties and give control to
individuals, but many crypto-assets continue to be traded on highly-
centralized and often risky services. Centralized cryptocurrency exchanges are
easy (and frequent) targets for hackers — the most recent UpBit hack in
November 2019 led to [a loss of $50M](https://cointelegraph.com/news/upbit-
hack-stolen-eth-worth-millions-on-the-move-to-unknown-wallets) of user funds.

Decentralized exchange (DEX) is a solution. AirSwap is one of the earliest
decentralized trading networks built on Ethereum, with security as a first-
class priority from day one. DEX activity has been consistently growing and is
now an essential player when it comes to trading tokens with around 12M total
trades and $50M USD weekly volume.

AirSwap in particular works with a “request for quotation” (RFQ) model, where
each user selects a token and amount to buy or sell and receives price quotes
from makers on the network. To be visible to these users, makers simply stake
AirSwap Token (AST) to an “indexer” contract that includes the location of
their pricing strategies. It’s easy to get started, more on that below.

# Key Benefits of AirSwap

Because AirSwap is peer-to-peer, it is secure and flexible from the ground up.
There is no token listing process, no deposits as it is non-custodial, no
trading fees, with full control over pricing.

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*34vA9dMRBZVp3Yx9VfoXUA.png)

## 1\. Be a maker for any token*

For makers, one of the biggest pain points is limited available assets,
especially when they’re new or less-liquid. An exchange will often demand a
listing fee in order for a new token to be tradable, with fees ranging from
$50,000 to $1 million.

Because it’s peer-to-peer, AirSwap doesn’t have a listing process, which means
tokens are available without third party agreements or fees. Each maker simply
stakes an “intent to trade”, which is a signal to other peers to contact them.

## 2\. Maintain custody over your assets

Keeping crypto assets on exchanges is a counterparty risk for makers. Are you
willing to keep your inventory on an exchange knowing your funds can disappear
at any time? On AirSwap, this isn’t an issue. Makers can post prices and trade
while maintaining full control of their assets at all times. In addition to
having full control, the security of the network is a high priority, with
AirSwap being named the [#1 safest DEX](https://icorating.com/report/dex-
security-report-v-10-2/).

## 3\. Don’t pay any fees

There are three kinds of fees traders typically incur: exchange trading fees,
deposit and withdrawal fees, and blockchain transaction fees. Exchange trading
fees are calculated as a percentage of your trade (maker order fees are about
0.2%); many exchanges will provide variable fee structures that change
depending on trading volume. Deposit and withdrawal fees are often charged by
a percentage of the amount or a fixed fee (often around $5 value). Blockchain
transactions are performed by decentralized miners, who are paid a computation
fee (gas) by users on the front end.

On AirSwap, there are **no trading fees, deposits, or withdrawals** — and for
makers, no blockchain transaction fees either.

## 4\. Stay in control of pricing strategy

There are DEXs that use smart-contract-based liquidity pools, with tokens
priced by an embedded formula. In this model, all participants are considered
one maker, and therefore, all participants are subject to have their trades
split up. As a maker, you want to be solely in control of what trades you make
and at what price.

Makers on AirSwap receive an average of **30,000 weekly RFQs** while
maintaining this control.

## 5\. Keep prices updated efficiently

Alternatively, there are DEXs with on-chain order books that require makers to
place orders on various levels of the book via limit orders. In this model,
makers are required to constantly update and cancel orders as market
conditions change; paying a fee on every cancellation, quickly accruing
significant costs. Similarly, takers likely split large orders across several
smaller limit orders and thus, prevent makers from efficiently capturing the
entire original order.

On AirSwap, makers are able to simultaneously source liquidity from multiple
venues and are not required to post “still” prices; this gives advanced makers
the ability to gain a competitive edge, based on their technical and trading
expertise, and allows them to be aggressive on their prices when answering
each RFQ.

Large takers have realized the benefits of receiving quotes in real-time and
the competitive pricing that results from the network, **averaging over 20 ETH
per trade**.

## 6\. Priority integration support

When setting up your maker on AirSwap, there is a wide array of [developer
documentation](https://docs.airswap.io) at your disposal. The AirSwap Github
is also a helpful resource for those who want to do some extra research on how
the rest of the network is setup. If you run into any issues not covered in
the developer docs, the AirSwap team is here to help; you can reach us
directly via [email](mailto:makers@airswap.io),
[Intercom](https://support.airswap.io), or any of our other [official
communication
channels](http://support.airswap.io/en/articles/2623503-community-resources-
and-guidelines).

Building on AirSwap should be easy. We’ll make sure to provide priority
support and help you get started, troubleshoot, and complete the setup for
becoming a maker on AirSwap.

# Getting Started on AirSwap

AirSwap was designed with makers in mind, and AirSwap 2.0 brings on an
exciting suite of capabilities for makers, including a new Maker Kit and an
updated suite of smart contracts. We’re working diligently to ensure that the
AirSwap network is the best experience for all participants. This has
attracted more and more network integrations with more on the way.

To connect to the AirSwap network, we invite you to try out the new [Maker
Kit](https://github.com/airswap/airswap-maker-kit), as well as the
comprehensive two-part tutorial series that will help you get started as a
maker on AirSwap ([Part 1](/fluidity/deploy-a-serverless-maker-bot-on-airswap-
part-i-1f711ff4d379) and [Part 2](/fluidity/deploy-a-serverless-maker-bot-on-
airswap-part-2-682fb4d9cabd)). If you have any additional questions, feel free
to reach out to us directly at [makers@airswap.io](mailto:makers@airswap.io).

*Subject to blacklist checks in accordance with the [Terms of Use](https://swap.tech/airswap-terms-of-use.pdf).

# About AirSwap

AirSwap enables peer-to-peer trading on the Ethereum blockchain. Built on a
decentralized protocol, traders can add or remove liquidity through a suite of
trustless products that are easy to use and free. Our mission is to empower
the world with frictionless trade.

[Blog](https://medium.com/fluidity) | [Twitter](https://twitter.com/airswap) |
[Discord](https://chat.airswap.io) | [Developers](https://docs.airswap.io) |
[Makers](https://makers.airswap.io) |
[Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/airswap) |
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/airswapio/) |
[Linkedin](http://www.linkedin.com/company/airswap/) |
[Subscribe](https://upscri.be/b0fed8-2) |
[Support](https://support.airswap.io) | [Request a
Feature](https://airswap.canny.io) | [FAQ](https://support.airswap.io/faq) |
[Trade Now](https://instant.airswap.io)

\--

\--

\--

## [More from Fluidity](/fluidity?source=post_page-----
202ddbfdf1bd--------------------------------)

Rebuilding Finance for a Frictionless World

[Read more from Fluidity](/fluidity?source=post_page-----
202ddbfdf1bd--------------------------------)

## Recommended from Medium

[[![GIGA](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*L9NmV3lfbq_WXQ6xj-
NrXA.jpeg)](/@giga_dinu?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[GIGA

](/@giga_dinu?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

## How to buy Dogey-Inu Token

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*HuEJzevgvir0X0wb-q-
dIQ.png)](/@giga_dinu/how-to-buy-dogey-inu-
token-90294e0f3c8d?source=post_internal_links---------
0----------------------------)

[[![John
Fitch](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*dNp-h6gPaZ1poP6y8MNelg.jpeg)](/@johnwfitch?source=post_internal_links
---------1----------------------------)

[John Fitch

](/@johnwfitch?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

in

[Worth checking out

](https://medium.com/worth-checking-out?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

## Should you invest in a blockchain ICO?

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*lJkcBsmTd9Zw0NZkryV4yA.png)](/worth-
checking-out/should-you-invest-in-a-blockchain-
ico-5169fad817f4?source=post_internal_links---------
1----------------------------)

[[![Kuen
Shahi](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*lWinOntNytRqKV4z)](/@kuenshahi?source=post_internal_links
---------2----------------------------)

[Kuen Shahi

](/@kuenshahi?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

## Recap of AMA of Avalanche with Nash

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*TPxW5taJAqEq_jU39QXJiA.png)](/@kuenshahi/recap-
of-ama-of-avalanche-with-nash-ff486f70adad?source=post_internal_links---------
2----------------------------)

[[![Michael Levin](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*9ZmErn3k7c_hci1RP-
DwUw.png)](/@michael-levin?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[Michael Levin

](/@michael-levin?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

## Part 2: Lightning Network, Bitcoin’s Crossing the Chasm Superpower

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/0*eZo9qeSo6q8lbIQZ)](/@michael-
levin/part-2-lightning-network-bitcoins-crossing-the-chasm-
superpower-7fe4fd4702dc?source=post_internal_links---------
3----------------------------)

[[![Stackswap](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Vv7oPmuwNv8OT9eRvakR-w.png)](/@stackswap?source=post_internal_links
---------4----------------------------)

[Stackswap

](/@stackswap?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

## Wallets for your STX

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*l5Yj4ghn5mLj1JoqMKRGbA.png)](/@stackswap/wallets-
for-your-stx-b8819cca473c?source=post_internal_links---------
4----------------------------)

[[![CoinShopp
io](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*Lzg6Q_t0zLzUIaNYn7Va3w.jpeg)](/@coinshoppio?source=post_internal_links
---------5----------------------------)

[CoinShopp io

](/@coinshoppio?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

## 5 Hints of Promising Cryptocurrencies in 2022

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*iE-
pqG9ja0z44EP8JmvBDw.png)](/@coinshoppio/5-hints-of-promising-cryptocurrencies-
in-2022-364b223eb8cb?source=post_internal_links---------
5----------------------------)

[[![Praveen
Buddiga](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*8ZYrPLR8TMIIeFjiXy_bag@2x.jpeg)](/@praveenbuddiga_24075?source=post_internal_links
---------6----------------------------)

[Praveen Buddiga

](/@praveenbuddiga_24075?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

in

[InsiderFinance Wire

](https://medium.com/insiderfinance?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

## Terapool LaunchPad— De Novo Utility of Terareum Technology

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*OuhEz4P34DVZC5LP32JYfA.jpeg)](/insiderfinance/terapool-
launchpad-de-novo-utility-of-terareum-
technology-40c0848b25a4?source=post_internal_links---------
6----------------------------)

[[![Alan Au @ AlgoTune](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*0aoD-
HzeYQcUdpA-6VGFLw.jpeg)](/@aau_algotune?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[Alan Au @ AlgoTune

](/@aau_algotune?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

in

[AlgoTune

](https://medium.com/algotune?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

## Different Types of Decentralized Exchanges

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*eCc85H2HOxJvzPBuYhsFmA.png)](/algotune/decentralized-
exchanges-part-1-e41e3fac1ef5?source=post_internal_links---------
7----------------------------)

[](/?source=post_page-----202ddbfdf1bd--------------------------------)

[About](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1&source=post_page-----
202ddbfdf1bd--------------------------------)[Help](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-
us?source=post_page-----
202ddbfdf1bd--------------------------------)[Terms](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f?source=post_page-----
202ddbfdf1bd--------------------------------)[Privacy](https://policy.medium.com/medium-
privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9?source=post_page-----
202ddbfdf1bd--------------------------------)

* * *

## Get the Medium app

[![A button that says 'Download on the App Store', and if clicked it will lead
you to the iOS App
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*Crl55Tm6yDNMoucPo1tvDg.png)](https://itunes.apple.com/app/medium-
everyones-stories/id828256236?pt=698524&mt=8&ct=post_page&source=post_page
-----202ddbfdf1bd--------------------------------)

[![A button that says 'Get it on, Google Play', and if clicked it will lead
you to the Google Play
store](https://miro.medium.com/max/270/1*W_RAPQ62h0em559zluJLdQ.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.medium.reader&source=post_page
-----202ddbfdf1bd--------------------------------)

[Get
started](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Ffluidity%2Fwhy-
be-a-maker-on-airswap-202ddbfdf1bd&source=post_page--------------------------
nav_reg-----------)

[![Maxime
Bucaille](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/176/176/2*QTeFbj9LOWF8VPC7AG_Bmw.jpeg)](/@maximebucaille)

[

## Maxime Bucaille

](/@maximebucaille)

17 Followers

Follow

[](/m/signin?actionUrl=%2F_%2Fapi%2Fusers%2F2b8b85d7a73a%2Flazily-enable-
writer-
subscription&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Ffluidity%2Fwhy-
be-a-maker-on-
airswap-202ddbfdf1bd&user=Maxime+Bucaille&userId=2b8b85d7a73a&source=--------------------------subscribe_user-----------)

## More from Medium

[[![Gilbert
Kon](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*JLmI8fqFoneGm9xl0rvmyw.png)](/@gilbertkon?source=read_next_recirc
---------0---------------------20b4cd0f_3710_4e11_8056_0d0e24dc51a4-------)

[Gilbert Kon

](/@gilbertkon?source=read_next_recirc---------0---------------------
20b4cd0f_3710_4e11_8056_0d0e24dc51a4-------)

in

[Coinmonks

](https://medium.com/coinmonks?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------20b4cd0f_3710_4e11_8056_0d0e24dc51a4-------)

## In it for the tech

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*-AytItzETWNvdkpfK9lrrQ.png)](/coinmonks/in-
it-for-the-tech-deda130fd4f3?source=read_next_recirc---------0
---------------------20b4cd0f_3710_4e11_8056_0d0e24dc51a4-------)

[[![Milestones_NFT](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*uh-S7wMvQfgSjz43oIyw6A.gif)](/@milestones_nft?source=read_next_recirc
---------1---------------------20b4cd0f_3710_4e11_8056_0d0e24dc51a4-------)

[Milestones_NFT

](/@milestones_nft?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
20b4cd0f_3710_4e11_8056_0d0e24dc51a4-------)

## Top 5 Things to do in the current NFT Bear Market

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*fnzKy5F798J7HZfwcCz-
DQ.png)](/@milestones_nft/top-5-things-to-do-in-the-current-nft-bear-
market-e584cc441ed?source=read_next_recirc---------1---------------------
20b4cd0f_3710_4e11_8056_0d0e24dc51a4-------)

[[![Sunheart](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/0*G0dOTonkONHiPiY5)](/@sunheartmattias?source=read_next_recirc
---------2---------------------20b4cd0f_3710_4e11_8056_0d0e24dc51a4-------)

[Sunheart

](/@sunheartmattias?source=read_next_recirc---------2---------------------
20b4cd0f_3710_4e11_8056_0d0e24dc51a4-------)

## What is Web3?

](/@sunheartmattias/what-is-web3-fa628748877f?source=read_next_recirc---------
2---------------------20b4cd0f_3710_4e11_8056_0d0e24dc51a4-------)

[[![Mahama
Shaibu\(MS_CRYPPTO\)](https://miro.medium.com/fit/c/40/40/1*tLiOGxbOVfuJJUHkAQBi6Q.jpeg)](/@MS_CRYPPTO?source=read_next_recirc
---------3---------------------20b4cd0f_3710_4e11_8056_0d0e24dc51a4-------)

[Mahama Shaibu(MS_CRYPPTO)

](/@MS_CRYPPTO?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
20b4cd0f_3710_4e11_8056_0d0e24dc51a4-------)

## What is the Blockchain and How does it work Explained for the non-tech guy.

![](https://miro.medium.com/focal/112/112/50/50/1*7RhtnsAQmLw3_KwMKYBVlw.png)](/@MS_CRYPPTO/what-
is-the-blockchain-and-how-does-it-work-explained-for-the-non-tech-
guy-42d953983e9d?source=read_next_recirc---------3---------------------
20b4cd0f_3710_4e11_8056_0d0e24dc51a4-------)

[Help

](https://help.medium.com/hc/en-us)

[Status

](https://medium.statuspage.io)

[Writers

](https://about.medium.com/creators/)

[Blog

](https://blog.medium.com)

[Careers

](/jobs-at-medium/work-at-medium-959d1a85284e)

[Privacy

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-privacy-policy-f03bf92035c9)

[Terms

](https://policy.medium.com/medium-terms-of-service-9db0094a1e0f)

[About

](https://medium.com/about?autoplay=1)

[Knowable

](https://knowable.fyi)

