[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Why We're Investing in… Evernym & The Sovrin Foundation

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

[mc4wp_form id='4618']

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/blog-
post-9.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/) [Lawrence Lundy
Joins Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/)

April 2016  

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/blog-
post-7.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-vc-to-
hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/) [Outlier
Ventures Becomes First VC To Hire ‘Head of Crypto-Economics’ With Appointment
of Eden Dhaliwal](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-
vc-to-hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/)

August 2017  

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Why We're Investing in… Evernym & The Sovrin Foundation

Posted by Why We're Investing in… Evernym & The Sovrin Foundation - October
2017

[ __](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://outlierventures.io/why-we-
are-backing-evernym-the-sovrin-foundation) [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://outlierventures.io/why-
we-are-backing-evernym-the-sovrin-foundation&title=Why We’re Investing in…
Evernym & The Sovrin Foundation) [
__](https://twitter.com/share?url=https://outlierventures.io/why-we-are-
backing-evernym-the-sovrin-foundation&text=Why We’re Investing in… Evernym &
The Sovrin Foundation) [
__](https://telegram.me/share/url?url=https://outlierventures.io/why-we-are-
backing-evernym-the-sovrin-foundation&text=Why We’re Investing in… Evernym &
The Sovrin Foundation)

If you have spoken to me recently you will know myself and the Outlier team
are really very excited to have announced at the [beginning of the
month](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-backs-evernym-to-bring-the-
world-true-self-sovereign-identity/) becoming Evernym’s, and the Sovrin
Foundation and it’s token’s, lead investor and strategic partner. As with
every investment we wanted to find some time to provide the rationale to our
decision which I have laid out below.



**PROBLEM**

Fundamentally as Evernym’s CEO (Timothy Ruff) puts it: ‘The Internet was built
without an identity layer, and a mechanism for establishing trust’. This has
led to huge inefficiencies and major social concern as we are forced to trust
companies who have consistently shown they are unable to secure the personal
data they are obliged to collect when interacting with us. It’s a lose-lose
situation at present and you could argue it is the single biggest problem for
The Web as a whole. If ever there was a usecase for blockchain it is
decentralised identity with the conceptual benefit of censorship resistance
and self-sovereign ownership.

In fact [back in 2015](https://outlierventures.io/9-building-blocks-for-a-
successful-blockchain-industry/) myself and Aron highlighted ‘decentralised
identity’ as a fundamental building block the blockchain community needed to
put in place for anything meaningful to happen in an increasingly
decentralised Web. To date, despite multiple attempts, nothing has gained
meaningful traction with an approach that we believed fundamentally fixes the
problem without too many compromising trade-offs.

Evernym’s technology and approach, including the introduction of the Sovrin
Token to incentivise the identity ecosystem, we believe promises to finally
solve the challenge in a scalable way. All trusted interactions, whether
online or not, start with a series of verifiable claims around identity, and
once in place allow for things like truly anonymous payments are possible. In
fact the distinguishing factor between Sovrin and other identity solutions is
they approach identity as a collection of claims and in fact believe the
proper way to look at at the establishment of online trust as a form of
‘claims exchange’. Because of this we believe Sovrin can eclipse anything we
have seen so far and go on to be a Top 10 crypto-currency in its own right.

  
**INNOVATION**

When describing Sovrin’s capabilities we use the words ‘truly anonymous, zero
knowledge proofs, pairwise pseudonymous decentralized identifiers (DIDs),
self-sovereign identity, and ‘verifiable claims’, but what the hell does all
that mean?



  * **Self-sovereign identity ultimately means rather than rely on third parties to guarantee our identity by storing personal data we give back control and ownership to the individual. It’s important, however, to highlight identity in an increasingly automated world will include ‘things’ (such as objects in The Internet of Things) including bots or digital agents, which will need a guardian-type relationship to a self-sovereign entity. Children, disabled persons and others will also need guardian relationships to someone who has self-sovereignty.**



  * **Zero knowledge proofs are an innovation that means an ability to prove a claim (through clever math) without revealing any of the data that makes it so, such as proving you’re over 21 without revealing your birthday or even your age. This means you can make verifiable claims without burdening the relying party with having to secure your data. This is where Sovrin as a ‘claims exchange’ comes in, and that approach solves huge problems for IoT, allowing the use of biometric or location data to establish trust between people, organizations, and things. **



  * **Pairwise Identifiers is one of the breakthrough innovations compared to every other identity solution we have seen. Bitcoin is not anonymous because whilst your ‘real world’ identity may be concealed, you repeatedly use the same identifier to transact, which allows others to triangulate or “correlate” you. Now you might say this is a good thing and it is not a simple subject to address. But the starting point of Sovrin’s team is to always assume you are transacting in a hostile environment when doing anything on a public blockchain. Today your state might be friendly but history has shown us we are always one step away if ever from something less benevolent.**



These innovations mean Sovrin is the world's first privacy focused blockchain
protocol for identity and verifiable claims exchange, between people and
things. Sovrin is identity for the internet done right.

So what does that mean in a practical sense? Well… if we now as individuals
can fully own and control our identity and associated data we can choose to be
totally anonymous or we can choose to reveal certain truths, without having to
transfer the data that proves it to a third party.



For example.

  * I can prove I have over $10,000 of Bitcoin in my wallet without revealing its total balance.
  * I can prove that $10,000, or even a portion, came from legitimate sources that meet the KYC and AML requirements. 
  * This means I can transact and exist in the new web paradigm of crypto and still be accepted and part of the existing financial system.



Now you might think why would I want to do that!? Well today we (as the wider
blockchain community) are creating parallel financial systems. But
participating in crypto will increasingly exclude you from the traditional
banking systems, as you lose a footprint. This means people who derive most of
their wealth from say freelancing for Bitcoin (or gains from token holdings)
will increasingly become financially excluded from being able to get loans or
mortgages or the safety nets of state welfare and benefits, and this will be
perhaps THE major hurdle for crypto to go mainstream.

And if, or perhaps when, we all shift over to this new financial system we
will still need the ability enjoy a kind of anonymous cash and simultaneously
allow for verifiable claims to be made on our incomes or transactions to
access financial products and services that are compliant with various
regulations. I see these two worlds becoming increasingly integrated and
Sovrin being the link that makes it possible.



**APPROACH**

Furthermore, Evernym has chosen to open source much of its proprietary
technology and IP and donate it to [The Sovrin
Foundation](https://sovrin.org/), which in turn donated the source code to the
Hyperledger Foundation where it is now known as “Hyperledger Indy.” The Sovrin
Foundation is an independent foundation staffed with some of the most
respected people in the identity space such as Phil Windley, which serves as
the world’s first foundation dedicated to an open source blockchain based
protocol for identity.

This means everyone can get a Sovrin identity: individuals, organizations and
things can own and control their identities in full.

Now what’s important to understand is that in order for this system of
exchanging claims, which will be so fundamental to our entire social fabric,
functions effectively and with proper levels of governance, The Sovrin Network
is deliberately permissioned. That means the infrastructure for ensuring
consensus on identity transactions is provided by carefully vetted and
permissioned ‘stewards’, carefully distributed around the world, who
independently own and operate their nodes on the network. These utilize the
[Sovrin Trust Framework](https://sovrin.org/trust-framework/) to combine to
form a system of checks and balances that earns trust through action rather
than promises and limits the possibility of centralised processing power and
stakeholder imbalance, ensuring the systems security can not be hijacked by
any one small group.



**TRACTION**

Evernym has existed for several years and is already working with clients like
The US Department of Homeland Security, [R3](https://www.r3.com/), the country
of Finland (through the [MyData](https://mydata.org/finland/) initiative), and
a number of leading global financial institutions including the entire U.S.
credit union industry. It has a fully up and running business development
function staffed by senior professionals in both North America and Europe.

Furthermore, the code base of Sovrin is part of the Hyperledger project, which
is governed by the Linux Foundation and backed by corporates such as IBM,
Intel and SAP. It is also about to announce a series of incredibly impressive
stewards joining the network. At Outlier many of our portfolio, [including
recently IOTA](http://untangled.world/tag/evernym/), have seen its power and
begin exploring integrating it into their solutions.

  
**TEAM** **  
**  
Under the leadership of the charismatic Timothy Ruff these are a group of
people who have been in the trenches of startup life with each other for many
years. They are seasoned identity professionals with the buy in of their
community as seen by the stellar cast of people involved in The Sovrin
Foundation which has intentionally invited board members to represent
expertise from across multiple industries and geographies, ensuring that
special interests – whether commercial, governmental, or otherwise – do not
unduly influence decisions.

These people are professionals, and equally credible with the corporate world
as they are crypto and identity communities.



**ECONOMICS**

The Evernym and Sovrin teams collectively deeply appreciate the importance and
value of considered crypto-economic design when thinking through how to
realise the ‘identity & claims economy’ to create a system that is both
sustainable and more equitable. They have shown this in seeking us at Outlier
and not rushing to do an ICO but rather invest the time and resource to do
things right. In doing so they, in collaboration with our partners at Imperial
College, they are creating an economic framework using advanced behavioural
economics and game theory to ensure network effect and order.



![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

