[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

Why We’re Investing in…IOTA

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

[mc4wp_form id='4618']

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/blog-
post-9.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/) [Lawrence Lundy
Joins Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/lawrence-lundy-joins/)

April 2016  

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/blog-
post-7.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-vc-to-
hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/) [Outlier
Ventures Becomes First VC To Hire ‘Head of Crypto-Economics’ With Appointment
of Eden Dhaliwal](https://outlierventures.io/outlier-ventures-becomes-first-
vc-to-hire-head-of-crypto-economics-with-appointment-of-eden-dhaliwal/)

August 2017  

[news](https://outlierventures.io/news/)

# Why We’re Investing in…IOTA

Posted by Why We’re Investing in…IOTA - June 2017

[ __](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://outlierventures.io/our-
first-investment-in-tokens-is-iota) [
__](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://outlierventures.io/our-
first-investment-in-tokens-is-iota&title=Why We’re Investing in…IOTA) [
__](https://twitter.com/share?url=https://outlierventures.io/our-first-
investment-in-tokens-is-iota&text=Why We’re Investing in…IOTA) [
__](https://telegram.me/share/url?url=https://outlierventures.io/our-first-
investment-in-tokens-is-iota&text=Why We’re Investing in…IOTA)

You don’t need me to tell you 2017 is, without doubt, going to be the ‘Year of
the Token’. As investors, we have patiently watched from the sideline whilst
for the first time ICOs raised more money than was invested by VCs in
‘blockchain’ startups in this last quarter. This fundamentally rewrites how
capital is raised and distributed and we are convinced this is only the
beginning. At [Outlier Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/) we hope to lead
as this crosses over into the wider deep tech industry and in particular our
heartland, the points of their ‘convergence’. Today we make the first step on
that journey.

The killer app of blockchain would appear to have been right in front of us
all along: the tokenisation, fractionalization and financialisation of The Web
starting with how it’s owned. Whilst I’ve always advocated the idea Web 3.0
will lead to the rebirth of a cooperative commons type model I didn’t think it
would happen this quickly. The best way I have heard it described is to think
of a token as a ticket to participate and own a stake in a future economy.

You may remember 3 months I wrote [99% of blockchain startups are
bullshit](https://convergence.vc/99-of-blockchain-startups-are-
bullshit-4cf11a549895). That was largely based on the belief almost all of the
infrastructure we were seeing created should be close to the point of free and
owned and financed by the community. This is because for the first time in
history the open source community now has a method to self-finance it’s
development, in theory, distribute the upside more equitably and all with some
of the most powerful network effects we have ever seen built in by design.

In the same post I laid out what we at Outlier Ventures found most
interesting, that rather than blockchain for its own sake, it was where it was
foundational to other deep tech scaling securely. IoT is one of the best
examples yet of a technology crying out for blockchain characteristics to fix
its problems: namely distributing risk to the edge, down to a single machine
level and enabling economically viable m2m transfer of value.

Almost all the corporate partners we speak to in Industry 4.0 who have deep
IIOT requirement say the economics of today’s leading public blockchains
simply don’t stack up for large-scale deployment. Over the last 6 months, one
player increasingly kept on coming up in conversation about how this might be
solved… [IOTA](http://iota.org/).

### Quick Stats on IOTA:

IOTA began in mid-2015 building on an idea called ‘tangle’. It issued 2779 Ti
(full supply: 2779530283277761) capped tokens and are now about to list on
Bitfinex 13.06.17 after building a passionate following.

Tangle removes the tension and cost of miners that plague Bitcoin and, as it
looks to scale, Ethereum. Each machine is a node and for every transaction it
wants the network to process it must process two in return via proof-to-work.
That means zero transaction charges making high volumes of micro-transactions
possible at scale. So it’s no wonder we are seeing it’s explosive growth:

  * 6,500 unique addresses with balances so far. (6,500 is including the YDX holders)
  * Already 30+ people working on applications on top of IOTA in addition to a number of active projects with more than 15 x corporates
  * An active community of 5,500 Slack members (more than 2,000 in the last 3 weeks alone, 11 June)
  * 300% growth in the Android app this week alone (11 June)

I’m not going to focus on its current token price but what I will say is in
the context of an Ether cap of $32bn with few serious corporate projects at
scale and tangle being a solution that could fix a $267B market (IoT by 2020,
Forbes) it is what it is. But we don’t come at this as day traders we are here
to make long-term strategic investments and we think this is a good one.

### Why IOTA?

Aside from the obvious fit with our convergence thesis IOTA ticked a number of
other boxes for the type of strategic investment we would make in tokens.

  * **Great teams, clear leadership, contrarian vision.** They have 4 x great co-founders. David Sønstebø, Dominik Schiener, Sergey Ivancheglo and Serguei Popov. Not only have they consistently shown great technical leadership in blockchain since as early as 2010 (Sergey invented proof-of-stake) but an astuteness to identify a real and tangible bottleneck in blockchain adoption in an industrial setting. Better still they have worked together in whole or part on projects before IOTA so know what its like to be in the trenches together.
  * **Our ability to inform & influence.** Our dialogues with David & Dominik regarding a possible collaboration started over 4 months ago. Over that time we have got to know them well and they have been able to attract a number of diverse people to the project who I greatly respect. Throughout they have shown great self-awareness and humility in knowing where they need help.
  * **Emphasis on community.** Talent in blockchain is scarce. The protocol war will be won or lost on how well it captures the hearts and minds of the developer community. IOTA have shown huge momentum here agreeing partnerships with a number of technical universities to tap into their professors and student bodies including Berkeley, UCL and NTNU. With us onside we also bring Imperial College’s blockchain lab ICR3 and their students to the table. Furthermore IOTA day 1 have set aside $10m in a [Ecosystem Fund](https://www.google.co.uk/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=2&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0ahUKEwjkoYXjvbbUAhXhK8AKHYAhAOwQFggsMAE&url=https%3A%2F%2Fcryptoinsider.com%2Fiot-operator-iota-launch-new-2-million-ecosystem-fund%2F&usg=AFQjCNEKUZMTMDghsWNZohwTH9o8CZD39A) to support startups who develop on top of their protocol.
  * **We can value add early in the process.** There is a very clear and immediate way we at Outlier can add strategic value and in particular leverage our network with enterprise partners with a heavy focus on the industrial giants of Europe. We already have 10 examples of this taking effect over the coming months.
  * **We can take a significant stake in the upside, early.** We do not want to become a 500 Startups style ICO factory. We want to make a handful of long-term strategic investments each year pre-ICO, or at the latest pre-listing, in teams we really believe in. This is tokens ideally accompanied by equity in any associated commercial for-profit entities. As such we have made a 7 figure investment in IOTAs which we will likely grow over the coming year based on progress allowing us to focus a large percentage of our time and resource helping it reach it’s potential.

### What does this mean for VC?

The day when VCs were the elusive elite and primary source of capital for
startups has ended. When a startup can raise [$35m in 30
seconds](http://www.the-blockchain.com/2017/06/01/brave-token-sale-blasts-
records-35-million-30-seconds/) without any dilution (Brave) the genie is out
of the bottle and it isn’t going back in. This doesn’t come without some
challenges, which I have already [laid out here](https://medium.com/outlier-
ventures-io/ico-pros-cons-cutting-through-the-hype-d4b58cbd77a8), but it does
mean if you are just hoping to get rich as a manager of money you just joined
the dinosaurs.

At Outlier we have been very selective about where we have put our money over
the last 4 years of investing in blockchain. That’s probably because, as a
partnership of 15 x active investors, it is literally all our own money.
However this now means we have the great privilege and freedom of being able
to go where ever we see value. Most VCs, bar the exceptional few, are
effectively locked out of investing in tokens for the next 3–4 years based on
their terms with LPs. Which is just about long enough to miss all the early
value in The Web 3.0 paradigm.

We have invested more heavily than most in building a specialist Web 3.0
research function and forging deep relationships with incumbents, as trusted
advisers, to understand this paradigm from every angle. With the rise of
tokens this now requires anyone who hopes to succeed in picking winners an
evolving understanding of crypto-economics and the complex regulatory
environment as well as the contact book to make it happen. That’s going to be
very hard for a VC with one junior MBA grad with a year in banking. For us
this is what all of our team have been pointed at for the last 4 years.

Being a partnership of 15 who all actively contribute to decision making its
meant we have been more cautious than most because we operate by consensus.
Whilst we don’t rank by portfolio as one of the top investors in blockchain
this has saved us from hubris. At the same time we have shown real leadership
and literally called bullshit where we saw it where we think many have not
been prepared to admit their early mistakes.

As a consequence, I think it means much more when we put our name to
something. Remember we spoke with over 1,200 blockchain startups [(we
published database here)](https://www.blockchainangels.eu/startups/charts/) so
we saw all the other deals the rest of the market did if not more we just
chose to largely pass. We don’t do FOMO.

I think we are all now at a stage that if a startup needs network effect to
succeed it needs to issue tokens to stand a chance of competing. This is
especially true in the convergence space where data and AI are so important.
As such from the last few months all our existing equity investments have been
exploring open sourcing large parts of their code base and to prepare to issue
tokens that are fundamental to their design. From now on the majority of our
new investments will have this as part of their fundamental design.

Furthermore, we hope to bring integrity, leadership and governance to the
tokens space to help inform best practice.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

