[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Why we invested in Agoric

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Why we invested in Agoric

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

May 2019

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

## Increasing global GDP by 5 percent: bringing blockchains to the global
economy

By Lawrence Lundy-Bryan, Partner & Head of Research

We are excited to announce our investment into [Agoric](http://www.agoric.com)
to support the team to bring security, usability, and interoperability to
smart contracts. In the global economy, establishing trust costs up to 35
percent of GDP. Smart contracts are key to changing the way trust is
established in the economy. Automating and decentralizing trust-establishing
processes could increase global GDP by 5 percent and grow global trade by 15
percent according to a recent [WTO
report.](https://www.wto.org/english/res_e/booksp_e/blockchainrev18_e.pdf)

Posted by Lawrence Lundy - May 2019

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/02/ov_lawrence-150x150.jpg)

May 2019

Posted by

Lawrence Lundy

Member

He informs technology policy as an advisor to the OECD Blockchain Advisory
Group, a Fellow at the WEF Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and an
Expert Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Blockchain.
He contributed to the UK Cryptoasset Taskforce led by HM Treasury, FCA and
Bank of England and the UK National Data Strategy led by the Department for
Digital, Culture Media & Sport. He has authored over 20 papers on the impact
of emerging technologies like AI and blockchains on the economy. He is a
regular speaker on the technology industry and has been quoted in the BBC,
Bloomberg, The Economist, and The Wall Street Journal, and presented at over
20 events and universities including MIT, Imperial College London, and
Cambridge University....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=140)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

Realising these transformative benefits requires a new approach to smart
contracts. Today smart contract platforms are insecure, hard to use, and
limited to specific networks. Agoric’s interoperable secure distributed smart
contract platform is foundational to the Convergence Stack and is crucial in
supporting an open data economy.

### **Bringing blockchains to the global economy: security, usability, and
interoperability**



  1. **Security**

Hosho, the smart contract auditing firm, found that 25 percent of audits
revealed critical bugs, and 60 percent of all projects had at least one
security issue. These bugs are the result of the rich scripting capabilities
of the Solidity language and the lack of formal verification. Ethereum is
still the dominant smart contract or distributed application (dapp) platform
in terms of developer mindshare even if EOS and Tron are leading in terms of
transactions through gambling and gaming applications. However both platforms
are still immature in terms of tools and practices, and have both experienced
bugs and hacks. Smart contracts aren’t a SaaS product that can be updated the
next day. These are contracts managing millions and billions of dollars. Their
lack of security is a deal breaker for large enterprises and financial
institutions, hampering blockchain adoption.

While most smart contract platforms currently use an identity-based security
architecture where access is granted based on the sender of a transaction, it
has been shown that identity-based security architectures have specific,
significant flaws. In contrast, Agoric uses an object-capability (ocap)
security architecture, in which access to a programming object itself is the
authority to use the object. This approach has been used successfully to
create secure operating systems, and to control untrusted scripts in Google’s
Caja project and Salesforce’s Locker Service.



> “In recent years, smart contracts have been prone to a number of extremely
> expensive errors that have been made even by real experts working incredibly
> hard to do it right. Programming smart contracts in the way the industry
> does it now is just too hard and too hazard-prone, and the losses are too
> great. This is a huge problem and one that needs to be fixed.”
>
> **Mark Miller, Chief Scientist, Agoric**

  2. **Usability**

A second problem for smart contract development today is usability. The
developer community around Ethereum and other smart contract platforms is
still relatively small. According to Slashdata, just 3% of developers
worldwide have adopted blockchain-related projects and growth has now
plateaued. There are several million smart contracts deployed on the public
Ethereum blockchain alone. State of the Dapps lists 2,667 applications
currently live across all platforms. But again, growth has slowed in 2019 with
only 88 new applications launching, the lowest number since January 2018.
Despite excitement around blockchains and smart contracts, the developer
community is small and stagnant. This is due to many reasons, chief among them
is the fact that developers have to learn a new programming language.

Agoric is enabling developers to write secure smart contracts in JavaScript.
JavaScript is the world’s most popular programming language with a community
of 11.7 million active developers. Not only is it the more popular, it grew in
2018 by a 2.5 million the highest growth in absolute numbers of any language
and more than the entire population of Swift, Ruby, or Kotlin developers. The
Agoric team have been instrumental in the design of JavaScript since 2007,
championing security features. Out of this work have come two subsets of
JavaScript: [SES](https://agoric.com/agoric-releases-ses/) (Secure
EcmaScript), the maximally secure backwards-compatible subset of JavaScript
that allows for object-capabilities, and
[Jessie](https://github.com/Agoric/Jessie), a much narrower subset designed
for writing highly reliable code for use in smart contracts. Because of
JavaScript’s widespread use, the language is extensively tested. Unlike a new
domain specific language for smart contracts that may have only been used by a
few people, the pitfalls and peculiarities of JavaScript are well-known and
can be accounted for, rather than discovered too late.



> “The Agoric vision is to unlock the potential of smart contracts, not only
> for bleeding-edge experts but also for millions of mainstream programmers.
> The Agoric team is uniquely right for this great task, and I'm proud to
> support them.”
>
> **Zooko Wilcox, CEO of the Electric Coin Company (makers of Zcash)**



  3. **Interoperability**

A third and growing problem is one of interoperability. We at Outlier have
always believed that the potential of crypto-networks is a world of cross-
network interactions. Blockchain to blockchain communication is vital in
preventing the same closed siloes that came to define Web 2.0. Much of the
attention has been focused on blockchain to blockchain interoperability
through atomic swaps, Cosmos and Polkadot; little focus has been on the
challenges at the logic layer. A huge limiting factor to widespread adoption
is if a contract can only interact with another contract on the same system.
As we bring automation to global trade, vendor lock-in means an inability to
pay suppliers, track IoT sensors, and share credentials.

Agoric has been designed in such a way as to be crypto-network agnostic
offering ‘smart-contracts-as-a-service.’ Instead of creating a smart contract
on one particular chain like Ethereum, Tezos or Cardano, contracts are written
in SES, and programs are deployed in _vats_ , a runtime that operates
consistently across single "solo" machines, permissioned _quorum_ clusters, or
public blockchains.



> “The prior work of the Agoric founders was one of the key inspirations for
> the architecture of the Cosmos Network. As we work on releasing the first
> version of inter-blockchain communication protocol, we expect that Agoric's
> smart contract and digital asset architecture will enable trillions of
> dollars in assets to be managed by networks of blockchains.”
>
> **Zaki Manian, Director of Research, All In Bits (Cosmos)**

### **Why Agoric?**

  1. **World class team**

Agoric builds on the seminal Agoric Open Systems work for market-based,
distributed computation, written by Chief Scientist Dr. Mark Miller and Dr. K.
Eric Drexler in 1988. Miller, the co-inventor of one of the most widespread
programming mechanisms – promise pipelining, is a former Google research
scientist and sits on the global JavaScript “TC39” technical standards
committee. Chief Executive, E. Dean Tribble is a former Principal Architect at
Microsoft and is an entrepreneur with multiple successful projects including
VerifyValid (acquired by Deluxe Corporation) and Agorics (acquired by
Microsoft). The team includes institutional economists as well as leaders and
executives with experience earned at companies including Mozilla, AMiX, IBM,
and Time Warner Cable.



  2. **World class investors and supporters**

Agoric is supported by an impressive array of global investors along with
Outlier Ventures, including Gumi Cryptos Capital, Interchain Foundation
(Cosmos), Kilowatt Capital, Lemniscap, MetaStable Capital, Rockaway
Blockchain, Xpring (Ripple), and others, joining initial seed investors
Electric Coin Company (Zcash), Naval Ravikant, and Polychain. The support of
Cosmos and Ripple will be particularly valuable to deliver on the vision of
smart contract interoperability across networks.



  3. **Crucial compute and bridge protocol for the Convergence Stack**

At Outlier, we are not just building a portfolio of investments, we are
helping design, build, integrate and accelerate a literal stack of highly
synergistic technologies based around a new (and more equitable) data economy.
One that will be more open, decentralised and privacy preserving. Agoric is
building two crucial pieces of the Stack for compute and bridges. For compute,
Agoric is making it easier for developers to create and deploy secure smart
contracts. In addition, the design of the vat runtime means that Agoric acts
as a bridge for the stack logic, in the same way Cosmos acts as a bridge for
the ledgers themselves. Agoric supercharges the development and adoption of
the Convergence Stack.

_“Creating secure smart contracts using today’s technology is inherently
difficult. Agoric includes robust security properties beyond anything
available today, and it will provide that security across substrates, from
local machines to global blockchains. The implications for secure development
of blockchains, cross-chain compatibility, and the future economic
opportunities that this will unlock means this is a vitally important
development in contract technology”._

**_Dean Tribble, CEO, Agoric_**



We are excited to support the team and integrate Agoric into the Convergence
Stack.

You can learn more about Agoric on our website at
[agoric.com](http://agoric.com/). To stay in the loop, you can [follow them on
Twitter](https://twitter.com/agoric), [sign up for their
newsletter](https://agoric.com/#mc_embed_signup), and [star repos on their
Github](https://github.com/Agoric/)

Get in touch at
[lawrence@outlierventures.io](mailto:lawrence@outlierventures.io) if you are
building any other protocols required for the Stack.

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

