[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_96,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F888d6174-30a2-4f6a-9b86-34d5de531632_256x256.png)](https://wrongalot.substack.com)

# [Wrong A Lot](https://wrongalot.substack.com)

SubscribeSign in

Share this post

Why did you kill Andre?

wrongalot.substack.com

Copy link

Twitter

Facebook

Email

# Why did you kill Andre?

### The Curious Case of $YFI & The Next Bubble

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_90,h_90,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F5ebeb7cd-9271-45e8-a345-ec6c8ef731c2_48x48.png)](https://substack.com/profile/2568384-matti-)

|

[Matti 👾](https://substack.com/profile/2568384-matti-)

| Oct 12, 2020  
---  
  
[Comment](https://wrongalot.substack.com/p/why-did-you-kill-andre/comments)

[Share](javascript:void\(0\))  
  
I did a little write up about $YFI/yearn.finance sometime in the summer of
2020 and shared it with the Zee Prime team. The proliferation of food emoji
coins and the incessant copying made me anxious. The situation reminded me a
quote from [Manias and
Mimesis](https://poseidon01.ssrn.com/delivery.php?ID=068096001126025096069093116115127117122011005035010028104088106024122017074004064091031007000042033007027068113096114005119066049007088022007108083101118125094105105024020000023079020123001065095083119090072014002004104102096089080124099071107112073091&EXT=pdf):

>  _"While genius is rare, the demand of the credulous will always be met by a
> healthy supply of fraud"._

So I publicly called it out.

[![Twitter avatar for
@mattigags](https://substackcdn.com/image/twitter_name/w_36/mattigags.jpg)Matti
@mattigags@zhusu Have not touched food emoji projects. These things try to
replicate @iearnfinance’s success in a distasteful way. My confidence in
@AndreCronjeTech’s project grows w/ the growing imitation. Worried that it
becomes a scapegoat candidate for the disilusion part of the cycle
though](https://twitter.com/mattigags/status/1302194705522929664)

[September 5th 2020

8 Likes](https://twitter.com/mattigags/status/1302194705522929664)

I have never published the essay because _**who is interested in crypto
archetypes?**_ Since many are now taking part in the sacrificial ritual of
killing the divine king and are not aware of it, I thought it could be
interesting to unveil the witch hunt.

This is an updated version of the original essay.

### The Curious Case of $YFI

On July 17th Yearn Finance was launched and the early participants were
rewarded with returns exceeding thousands percentages within days. Investing
in the $YFI token that accrues value generated in Yearn and might have been "
_[the fastest 100x in crypto ever](https://www.newsbtc.com/2020/07/25/analyst-
yearn-finance-yfi-defi-crypto/)_ ".

A king was born and with it a meme of a "fair launch".

The unaudited and underfunded project took the market by surprise and
overshadowed similar VC-backed projects in the space. It also won the hearts
of the community; those who participated in the early upside and those who
would like to participate in the future upside.

Is $YFI the future of (decentralized) finance? In terms of its functionality
it certainly is an interesting "fintech", in terms of reflexivity it can be
anything the observers with substantial financial means make it on a scale
from _"a game"_ to _"redefining finance"_.

Is there a better _tech_ out there? Possibly. But if the power of $YFI meme
grows with a substantial momentum, the developer continues in delivering
reliable technology and gets rewarded with more memes - the flywheel goes up.
And then, the price becomes a meme:

[![Twitter avatar for
@Arthur_0x](https://substackcdn.com/image/twitter_name/w_36/Arthur_0x.jpg)Arthur
@Arthur_0x$YFI 10k by Aug or this becomes a full shit-post
account.](https://twitter.com/Arthur_0x/status/1286595997506797568?s=20)

[July 24th 2020

10 Retweets181
Likes](https://twitter.com/Arthur_0x/status/1286595997506797568?s=20)

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F08d16bdb-3b61-4fa8-84aa-43716e6e9098_394x1280.jpeg)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2F08d16bdb-3b61-4fa8-84aa-43716e6e9098_394x1280.jpeg)

$YFI origin story makes it a perfect Girardian candidate with the founder
being [an extreme insider and an extreme
outsider](https://twitter.com/Galois_Capital/status/1285769451929866241?s=20).
Notice the [extremely delicate balancing act being a God and being a
victim](https://blakemasters.com/post/24578683805/peter-thiels-cs183-startup-
class-18-notes). Andre Cronje could become the Elon Musk of DeFi.

Peter Thiel (via [Blake
Masters](https://blakemasters.com/post/24578683805/peter-thiels-cs183-startup-
class-18-notes)) describes this phenomenon (see Figure 1):

>  _"People start out being different. They are nurtured to develop their
> already somewhat extreme traits. Those traits become more important, and
> they learn to exaggerate them. Others perceive that inflated importance and
> exaggerate in turn. The founders thus end up being even more different than
> they were before"._

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fd782d026-320f-4793-9169-b3c9c8f78ebd_500x426.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fd782d026-320f-4793-9169-b3c9c8f78ebd_500x426.png)

 _ **Figure 1**_
****_(source:<https://blakemasters.com/post/24578683805/peter-thiels-
cs183-startup-class-18-notes>)_

Notice the forces of reflexivity at play. Andre started out as special and
with $YFI price surging he is becoming divine. He does not sleep. He does not
eat. He only deploys.

And tests in prod.

### Girard And The Scapegoat

For those unfamiliar with Rene Girard's scapegoating let me give you a TL;DR.

Since the start of the DeFi craze the memetic element dominated: people
believed what others believed because they imitated the desires of others. The
hype created a meme that the price of $YFI will flip Berkshire stock and so
on. Then suddenly chaos ensued because the narrative was not sustainable.

In such moments of chaos people turn against each other. Girard believed that
they have devised a violence mitigation strategy. Violence of all against all
is not sustainable. Thus they unite in a subconsciously navigated act of
sacrificing the divine king; a violence of all against one.

Scapegoat is representing sins of everyone involved. He is "the other" but
must emerge from within the group; the extreme insider and outsider. A witch
hunt ensues. Killing the witch cleanses the community from the sins and
restores order.

The mechanics I am describing are not new to crypto as the industry has seen
them before. It was these previous cases of ritual sacrifice that united the
community in times of the bear market. This led me to believe that Andre
Cronje is the next in the lineage of the divine kings.

### Satoshi, Vitalik and Andre as Divine Kings

Vitalik Buterin was the scapegoat of the last crypto bubble. He was the king
that was supposed to lead us into the promised land of the world's computer
and many got burned. Vitalik's Etehreum was the kingdom for a while and it
served as a catalyst for the bubble. The ICOs got bigger, people got richer
and the community was thriving.

The ICO bubble popped. People were pitted against each other by the underlying
social dynamics. Then the crypto community united itself in a sacrificial
scapegoating of Vitalik and $ETH. In the process of spewing hate against the
founder the value accrual of $ETH was questioned. $ETH has died only to be
resurrected in the next cycle.

What we see today is not Ethereum as the world's computer of 2017 but as a
vehicle for DeFi/Open Finance. The narratives are changing for Ethereum,
similar to Bitcoin, allowing these highly reflexive objects to survive beyond
their individual bubbles.

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff3e63e99-bc79-4a69-871c-4560d4714708_468x271.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff3e63e99-bc79-4a69-871c-4560d4714708_468x271.png)

 _ **Figure 2: Narratives of Ethereum**_ (source: _ **[Felipe Gaúcho
Pereira](https://tokeneconomy.co/visions-of-ether-590858bf848e)**_ ):

In words of Woody Belangia:

> _‘The accusation has been pragmatically justified by its predicted effect —
> the pollution having been purged, the society is now restored to health.
> **[Post hoc, ergo propter
> hoc.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Post_hoc_ergo_propter_hoc)** ’_

In the summer of 2020 someone _worthy_ emerged. It was Andre Cronje. Sadly, he
was crowned king and sacrificed within three months. DeFi narrative is getting
weaker each day. Short ETH thesis are emerging even among the most bullish of
all.

[![Twitter avatar for
@AdamScochran](https://substackcdn.com/image/twitter_name/w_36/AdamScochran.jpg)Adam
Cochran @AdamScochran@micahalcorn Seems a great time to short. I am bullish
long-term on ETH but the pump from the food farming craze is over and I think
people are clinging to euphoria that is unfounded. With ETH2.0 further away
and no other major developments in BTC its hard to justify this price
action.](https://twitter.com/AdamScochran/status/1314226847476076546?s=20)

[October 8th 2020

13 Likes](https://twitter.com/AdamScochran/status/1314226847476076546?s=20)

With tons of freshly printed money in the game and so little gain on total
crypto market capitalization people cannot believe it is over. And it would
[be indeed premature to
assume](https://twitter.com/cburniske/status/1313663251847155712?s=20) this
was the peak of the long-awaited crypto hype.

### Closing Thoughts: King Wanted

The promise of optimistic rollups and other scaling solutions people hope that
the limits of ETH-centric DeFi craze will continue. That is a possibility.
Although DeFi still has untapped potential it may be the DeFi beyond Ethereum
that will be a catalyst of the next bubble.

Ethereum has cleansed itself from the world's computer narrative to take on a
form of DeFi/Open Finance. This time it may be DeFi narrative cleansing itself
from the limitations of Ethereum. This has happened before as crypto cleansed
itself from Bitcoin (or the other way around, depends on where you stand).

[![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff4b150a2-1d55-43ee-
bce3-91bf532ff97c_1600x851.png)](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fbucketeer-e05bbc84-baa3-437e-9518-adb32be77984.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Ff4b150a2-1d55-43ee-
bce3-91bf532ff97c_1600x851.png)

 _ **Figure 3: Narratives of Bitcoin**_ (source: [Visions of Bitcoin by Nic
Carter](https://medium.com/@nic__carter/visions-of-bitcoin-4b7b7cbcd24c))

 _"Bitcoin not crypto._ " And that is true. Bitcoin itself (perhaps even
Satoshi) was the scapegoat when disillusionment set in after each individual
bubble. Bitcoin has been resurrected many times and its narrative continuously
reframed.

We can say that Bitcoin has sacrificed many of its own narratives and personas
embodied the respective narrative (see Figure 3). The last one being “an
uncorrelated asset thesis” that [died with liquidated positions on
BitMEX](https://multicoin.capital/2020/03/17/march-12-the-day-crypto-market-
structure-broke/). However, with [the recent developments around MicroStrategy
and Square](https://www.theblockcrypto.com/post/80175/jack-dorsey-square-
purchases-50-million-worth-of-bitcoin); a potentially powerful narrative of
world's reserve asset might be forming.

To sum it up:

  1. Andre & $YFI are the scapegoat. 

  2. Andre has been sacrificed so that DeFi/crypto could live. 

  3. DeFi may not be finished just yet, look beyond Ethereum. 

  4. Bitcoin has its own narratives (but the reflexivity involved might interfere with prices of other cryptoassets).

  5. Be on the lookout for the reflexive tornado: [watch the cash](https://twitter.com/kyled116/status/1313969175153451008?s=20) and wait for the narrative. 

The preference state of mind and belief state of mind are melting into a one
shapeless mass as one dominates the other. Pumpamentals become the
fundamentals.

The king is dead, long live the king!

    
    
     **Disclosure:** This is not investment advice. Zee Prime Capital hold $YFI and positions in Ethereum and non-Ethereum DeFi projects and will continue to do so. 

[CommentComment](https://wrongalot.substack.com/p/why-did-you-kill-
andre/comments)

[ShareShare](javascript:void\(0\))

![](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_66,h_66,c_fill,f_auto,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fsubstack.com%2Fimg%2Favatars%2Flogged-
out.png)

## Create your profile

Your nameYour bio Subscribe to the newsletter

0 subscriptions will be displayed on your profile (edit)

Skip for now

Save & Post Comment

## Only paid subscribers can comment on this post

[Already a paid subscriber? **Sign in**](https://substack.com/sign-
in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fwhy-did-you-kill-andre&for_pub=wrongalot&change_user=false)

#### Check your email

For your security, we need to re-authenticate you.

Click the link we sent to , or [click here to sign
in](https://substack.com/sign-in?redirect=%2Fp%2Fwhy-did-you-kill-
andre&for_pub=wrongalot&with_password=true).

TopNewCommunity[](javascript:void\(0\))

No posts

# Ready for more?

 **Subscribe**

© 2022 Matti 👾

[Privacy](https://wrongalot.substack.com/privacy) ∙ [Terms](/tos) ∙
[Collection notice](https://substack.com/ccpa#personal-data-collected)

[ Publish on
Substack](https://substack.com/signup?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=web&utm_content=footer)[
Get the app](https://substack.com/app/app-store-redirect?utm_campaign=app-
marketing&utm_content=web-footer-button)

[Substack](https://substack.com) is the home for great writing

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please [turn on
JavaScript](https://enable-javascript.com/) or unblock scripts

