![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/why-we-need-a-better-vpn/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/why-we-need-a-better-vpn/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/why-we-need-a-better-vpn/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/why-we-need-a-better-vpn/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/why-we-need-a-better-vpn/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/why-we-need-a-better-vpn/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Why We Need a Better VPN](/static/39d314a07e9b336bae52bfc33516428d/green-
security-camera.jpg)

# Why We Need a Better VPN

May 30, 2019  
  

As dueling interests move to control the future of the internet, users around
the globe are increasingly turning to VPNs. But what users don’t know is that
many VPNs fail to provide the security and privacy that they advertise. It’s
time for a product that we can trust — a truly decentralized solution that
will deliver an open, inclusive internet free of censorship and data
harvesting.

In much of the world, we’re now well into our third decade of online
connectivity. In Europe and North America, [internet access is now nearly
universal](https://supplygem.com/internet-usage-statistics/). In other
nations, the possibilities of an online world are just emerging. But as access
to the internet continues to expand around the globe, we’re seeing a troubling
pattern: an increasing desire on the part of state actors and big corporations
to own and control the internet.

It should come as no surprise that authoritarian regimes want to restrict the
internet. From their perspective, the availability of information on the
internet poses the greatest threat to control since the advent of the free
press. As Ray Bradbury wrote in Fahrenheit 451, “If you don’t want a man
unhappy politically, don’t give him two sides to a question to worry him; give
him one. Better yet, give him none.”

This is the basic ethos of governments that embrace digital authoritarianism.
And it goes well beyond stifling activists and dissidents. Under an
authoritarian regime, anyone — journalists, comedians, musicians, and ordinary
citizens — can be a target for daring to think differently or speaking out.
Throughout the world, we see authoritarian governments attempting to control
what types of information their citizens can access on the internet in an
attempt to control their consciousness.

![Wikipedia](/img/wikipedia-blocked.png)

In other places — also fighting for control — we have a corporately controlled
internet. This model relies on the idea that in order to access information
and connect with others, you have to give up the right to your digital self.

Corporate interests monitor and harvest our every contact and click,
exploiting the fact that we rely on the internet for nearly every facet of our
lives. They delve deep into our digital selves so that they can commodify our
identities. For years, they’ve succeeded with only a whisper of pushback. But
recent scandals highlighting the dangers of this model have people paying
attention.

By 2017, [research and polling](http://www.telesign.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/11/TeleSign-Consumer-Account-Security-
Report-2016-FINAL.pdf) showed that Americans no longer trusted the widespread
policy of corporate data harvesting:

  * 95% of Americans are concerned about how companies use their data
  * 80% are more concerned than they were a year ago
  * 50% are looking for new ways to safeguard their data

The desire for a better internet that allows us to communicate and collaborate
without censorship or data exploitation is growing around the world. The
pincer movement being deployed by authoritarian and corporate interests has
people looking to escape these two failed models of the internet, and global
citizens are increasingly turning towards technology that helps them regain
control of their digital experiences. For many, the solution is the use of a
virtual private network (VPN).

## The Rise of the VPN

In their most basic sense, VPNs are intended to allow people to access the
internet without fear of tracking, censorship, or having their personal
information compromised. Because of this, we’re seeing a massive rise in their
use.

Approximately 25% of internet users in the world now use a VPN each month. And
that rise in users has led to a massive market to capitalize on user demand.
Industry reports show that the VPN market is growing by billions of dollars
each year, and is projected to more than triple, from $15.46 billion in 2016
to $54 billion by 2024.

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

Young people are a large reason for this projected increase; 68% of VPN users
are under the age of 35. The reasons they’re using these services are
relatable to anyone who has the internet. The primary reason people use a VPN
is to access entertainment content; the secondary, to gain access to social
networks and news.

At its core, this increased usage should be a good thing. People around the
world are finding ways to circumvent the restrictive, exploitative nature of
the current internet. But the reliance on VPNs to help make a better internet
relies on one basic premise: complete trust in the company behind the VPN.

As the market for VPN services grows, consumers are presented with increasing
options. We have to ask ourselves: Do each of these services really offer us
the security and privacy that a VPN is meant to deliver? Sadly, the answer is
no.

## Why Current VPNs Can’t Solve Our Biggest Challenges

The problems go right to the core technology of most VPNs. Today, most VPNs
rely on a centralized system, and this structure is inherently impossible to
trust. Centralized VPNs are susceptible to firewall blockages and often rely
on remaining compliant with governments in order to operate. By their very
nature, they can’t provide the user with the benefits desired.

For VPN users in nations with regimes attempting to control the flow of news
and information, governments heavily regulate the VPN industry. Operating
within many nations means that a VPN provider has to register or get licensed
with the government. How is it possible to trust a VPN approved by a
government attempting to control and monitor online traffic? For instance,
roughly 60% of the top, free VPN services are based in China. Do we have faith
that the Chinese government is allowing the services to operate without
monitoring user behavior?

In nations where the population enjoys unfettered access to news and
information, another threat arises — a lack of transparency on the part of VPN
providers. In a study of the world’s 115 most popular VPNs, 26 were found to
be keeping tabs on their users. While marketing language may argue otherwise,
the business model for many free VPNs is based on the provider harvesting and
selling the users’ personal data. Buried in that fine print at the bottom of
the terms and conditions is the acquiescence of consent.

![VPN Comparison](/img/vpn-comparison-chart.png)

Sold as a way to ensure private, secure browsing, the companies behind VPNs
are actually tracking user data related to bandwidth, connection timestamps,
IP addresses, and websites visited. Users who rely on services like this are
often unaware they are being monitored and tracked. We’re left asking: To whom
is the data sold to and for what purpose?

In other words, while internet users are attempting to gain access free of
censorship and personal data mining, the services they use to do that are
compounding the issue by exploiting their trust. At the heart of this problem
is the issue of centralization. A centralized system requires complete trust
on the part of the user, and with complete trust comes the ability to exploit
it.

Security and protection pose additional threats. The vast majority of VPNs
rely on single-hop service, which allows interested parties to discover both
where traffic is coming from and where it is going. Traditional VPN traffic
also leaves a signature that is relatively easy to spot. For users in
countries where attempting to access a news website, like the BBC, or a social
network, like Facebook, presents the threat of imprisonment, this is a very
real danger.

While there have been genuine attempts to alleviate the above issues via the
use of decentralized VPNs, the attempts thus far have fallen short. VPNs
featuring the use of decentralized servers have relied on a system of
volunteers to act as nodes to power the system. While these services have
gained some traction, the lack of volunteers has led to systems that lack the
bandwidth, computational capacity, and servers to create a truly secure,
private online experience.

## Building a Better VPN

As people around the world migrate towards VPNs, the need for a truly
decentralized system with the capacity to provide everyone on Earth access to
news, entertainment, and communication is increasingly evident.

Over the past year at Orchid, we’ve had our heads down, working to develop a
new online experience which delivers to everyone — regardless of geographic
location or political reality — the internet they deserve: secure,
unrestricted access to information and connectivity free of monitoring and
data harvesting.

The world deserves a better internet. At Orchid, we believe that a
decentralized solution that eliminates the possibility of authoritarian or
corporate control can help provide it. If you believe that everyone on Earth
should be able to access the internet and enjoy an online experience free of
repression and exploitation, we hope you’ll join us as we work towards that.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [VPN](/tag/vpn/)
  * [Ethereum](/tag/ethereum/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Why%20We%20Need%20a%20Better%20VPN%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fwhy-
we-need-a-better-vpn%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fwhy-
we-need-a-better-vpn%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fwhy-
we-need-a-better-vpn%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/starting-today-it-only-costs-1-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

#### Starting today, it only costs $1 to get started with Orchid

](/starting-today-it-only-costs-1-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

Mar 25, 2021

](/what-the-london-hard-fork-means-for-ethereum-and-orchid/)

[

#### What the London hard fork means for Ethereum and Orchid

](/what-the-london-hard-fork-means-for-ethereum-and-orchid/)

Sep 1, 2021

](/rohan-grey-joins-priv8s-expanding-roster-of-speakers/)

[

#### Rohan Grey joins Priv8’s expanding roster of speakers

](/rohan-grey-joins-priv8s-expanding-roster-of-speakers/)

Mar 9, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

