![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/why-internet-privacy-matters-more-than-ever/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/why-internet-privacy-matters-more-than-ever/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/why-internet-privacy-matters-more-than-ever/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/why-internet-privacy-matters-more-than-ever/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/why-internet-privacy-matters-more-than-ever/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/why-internet-privacy-matters-more-than-ever/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Why Internet privacy matters more than
ever](/static/298a952461fcc72847317bc8ab20e930/Orchid_BlogImage_PrivacyMatters.jpg)

# Why Internet privacy matters more than ever

Apr 28, 2020  
  

Privacy is an important topic these days. People want it, and businesses and
governments say they support it. The right to privacy is affirmed in the
Fourth Amendment to the United States Bill of Rights as well as the European
Convention on Human Rights. But in the digital age, privacy can seem beyond
anyone's full purview, an intangible philosophical concept beyond our grasp.
It's one thing to lock the door and close the blinds. But how can we ensure
privacy in a world where business moves through electronic channels, where
shopping is increasingly done and paid for digitally, and where our social
lives can take place more online than off? What is really in all those 80-page
Terms and Conditions policies, and what does it mean for people, businesses
and their privacy?

People feel an innate need for privacy. We don't need to have it explained
that sensitive actions, conversations, and correspondence should be free from
intrusion on the part of strangers. But in a world where so much of our
commerce and our conversation take place over invisible electronic networks,
this is harder to control. Over the past several years, people around the
world have begun to wake up to the high level of risk to privacy that exists
on the Internet. Multiple news stories have
[driven](https://www.nytimes.com/article/zoom-privacy-lessons.html) the
message home.

Orchid grew in response to the pressures that privacy currently faces around
the world. It is the reason we exist. Here we will dig into what privacy
really means, how it has become endangered by modern information habits and
systems, and how we can reclaim our privacy in the digital age. Online privacy
is not a lost cause; we just need knowledge and the right tools.

**What do we mean by privacy?**

Until quite recently, it was straightforward for a person to determine whether
they were in a condition of privacy or not. If you were at home, alone, with
the curtains drawn, you could have a high level of confidence that no one knew
what you were doing. If you made a purchase, you paid in person in cash, and
only you and the vendor knew the timing and nature of the transaction.

Notions of privacy change over time. The [accelerating change
theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Accelerating_change) holds that
technical innovation increases exponentially as new technologies, designed to
overcome particular obstacles, result in paradigm shifts that impact the whole
of society. Privacy is one of the concepts likely to change as the ability of
human beings to record, store, share, and collect information and data
continues to grow.

Today, even when we are home alone, armies of bots log and track our online
behavior. Our sensitive information -- credit cards, dates of birth, social
security numbers -- are stored in remote databases that can be, and often are,
the focus of malicious attacks. Our natural inclination to base our judgments
on things we physically see act as a disadvantage in this world. Because
online tracking is invisible, many of us have a false sense of security when
it comes to our privacy. We need to collectively update our understanding of
the concept in order to protect ourselves in the modern age.

**The crisis of privacy in the modern world**

Even before the world was turned upside down by the coronavirus, ordinary
people were nervous about privacy. In
[surveys](https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2016/09/21/the-state-of-
privacy-in-america/), 91% of Americans say they feel they've lost control of
personal information collection and usage; more than 80% lack confidence their
online information will remain private and secure; and 74% say it's very
important to be in control of who has information about them.

These fears are well founded. Every day, people's online activity and behavior
is tracked, logged, and stored. Websites visited, purchases made, documents
shared -- all of this is fodder for a massive dossier -- a "[browser
fingerprint](https://pixelprivacy.com/resources/browser-fingerprinting/)" --
that exists for every person with an online life. These profiles have been
compiled without the consent of individuals, but they are used to influence
and manipulate the way we interact and the things we spend money on. They also
threaten to invade our lives in more insidious ways if governments or
malicious actors decide to effectively weaponize them to target groups. [This
is already a reality](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/17/technology/china-
surveillance.html) in some parts of the world.

The phenomenon of automatic and ubiquitous monitoring of individuals has been
dubbed "[surveillance
capitalism](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2019/jan/20/shoshana-
zuboff-age-of-surveillance-capitalism-google-facebook)." Under this model, the
corporations that control access to the Internet -- the Googles, Facebooks,
and Amazons of the world -- collect massive amounts of data on their users and
sell this data to advertisers. The picture that emerges from the millions of
tiny individual actions allows other businesses to target their ads at people
most likely to make certain purchases. This reality spills over into the
information sphere as well, causing platforms to push certain media, opinions,
and information to specific people based on their existing biases. This has
been highlighted [as a driver of increasing
polarization](https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/voices/2019/09/02/social-
media-election-bias-algorithms-diversity-column/2121233001/), misinformation,
and political dysfunction in the Western world.

Clearly, left to the Internet's multinational gatekeepers, our privacy is in
great danger.

**Pivotal time for privacy**

If nothing changes, the world will soon be on the cusp of losing any semblance
of privacy at all. The Internet, conceived as a free space for people to
explore, may evolve into something like an oligarchic dystopia. And just as
the issue of privacy was emerging into the broader public consciousness, the
world has been turned upside down by the global coronavirus pandemic. No one
knows what the resolution will be, but there are worrying signs for privacy.

Already, governments -- including democratic governments in the West -- are
beginning to offer proposals for tracking and vetting of citizens based on
biological information. There has been
[praise](https://twitter.com/MaddowBlog/status/1238279302468288512) for the
strict controls imposed by China's totalitarian government. In the UK, so-
called "[immunity
passports](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2020/apr/03/immunity-passports-
can-they-end-uk-coronavirus-lockdown)" have been proposed. Even in the United
States, free movement has been challenged, with governors calling for
[restrictions](https://www.hawaiinewsnow.com/2020/03/22/live-governor-
expected-announce-new-restrictions-bid-fight-spread-virus/) on travel within
the country.

None of these measures can be implemented without great intrusions on personal
privacy. And this lethal pandemic highlights the reasons privacy is often
sidelined. The fact is, smart identification and tracking of individuals who
are infected, or have been in contact with someone who is, will likely turn
out to be one of the crucial tools in defeating the disease. It is, as alien
as it may sound, a responsible use of surveillance.

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

But the global pandemic risks pushing us past a tipping point beyond which
privacy may be impossible to regain. Serious voices are
[arguing](https://foreignpolicy.com/2020/04/10/coronavirus-pandemic-
surveillance-privacy-big-data/) that if the choice is between surveillance and
privacy, we must choose surveillance in order to combat the coronavirus. That
such views are being aired in earnest by voices that traditionally profess
support for human rights should give everyone pause.

In working to contain the coronavirus, we must take extra care to ensure that
we don't make ourselves less free in the longer term. It is possible to use
health data responsibly to help beat back the virus. In the past, [crises have
been a catalyst](https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/defending-freedom-in-the-
time-of-coronavirus-2020-04-23) for the diminishment of personal freedom. We
must be vigilant to ensure that our governments, and the technology that
enables modern life (and especially the remote work that is now ubiquitous),
are doing less harm than good. Fortunately, this is entirely possible.

**VPNs and other privacy tools**

There are a number of tools that are designed to strengthen Internet privacy
for their users. The most well-known of these belong to the category of
Virtual Private Networks, or VPNs. In effect, VPNs redirect users' web traffic
through an encrypted server, obfuscating the nature of web traffic. Without a
VPN, both Internet service providers (ISPs) and destination websites can see
the origin and destination of web traffic, which is identifiable by its IP
address. A VPN blocks this visibility: the ISP will see only that activity
occurred, and the website will only see that traffic visited, but will be
unable to identify its origin.

VPNs are widely used by business travelers focused on the security of
sensitive materials. They are also crucial in parts of the world that block
and censor Internet traffic with firewalls. They achieve a level of privacy
that is totally absent from normal browsing -- but they remain imperfect. In
using a VPN, users must still trust the operator of the service. While most of
the leading VPNs have stated commitments not to log their users' activity, the
fact is that true privacy hinges on nothing more than these businesses keeping
their word.

Another privacy tool that has deservedly earned plaudits is
[Tor](https://www.torproject.org/). Similar to a VPN, but with important
differences, Tor is a web browser that uses an "onion router" design to
encrypt user traffic multiple times. Tor delivers excellent privacy and has
been [highlighted](https://www.wired.com/story/the-grand-tor/) as one of the
leading tools for online anonymity. But it relies for its bandwidth on
volunteers known as Tor relays. The lack of an economic incentive structure
means demand often outstrips supply, causing the service to suffer from [slow
connection
speeds](https://www.reddit.com/r/TOR/comments/8lvfhk/tor_browser_is_so_slow_that_it_effectively_doesnt/).

**Enter Orchid**

Orchid is an open-source Internet privacy solution built on the Ethereum
blockchain. It incorporates aspects of existing privacy solutions and
integrates them into a dynamic bandwidth marketplace. Orchid, which lets
anyone run a node and offer bandwidth, aggregates the services of some of the
leading global VPN providers including [LiquidVPN](/orchid-partners-with-
liquidvpn/), [PIA](/pia-bringing-trusted-private-bandwidth-to-orchid-users/),
[Tenta](https://tenta.com/), [Boleh](https://www.bolehvpn.net/), and
[VPNSecure](/orchid-partners-with-vpnsecure/).

Orchid matches user demand with VPN bandwidth through a unique incentive
structure called [probabilistic nanopayments](https://medium.com/orchid-
labs/probabilistic-nanopayments-4aa423c3f22f). When a user wants to browse the
Internet, they load an amount of Orchid tokens (OXT) onto their account. When
they use bandwidth, providers are not paid directly. Rather, they are issued
"tickets." A certain number of tickets -- on the order of one in millions --
will be a "winner." When a provider receives a winning ticket, an amount of
OXT is debited from the user's account. Keeping most payments "off-chain"
allows the system to provide service efficiently. At the same time, providers
will be compensated at rates that are competitive with those commanded by
traditional VPNs.

Another unique aspect of Orchid is the ability to configure [multiple
hops](/what-is-a-hop/). Using a single VPN, users' traffic can still be
monitored and "logged." Although the ISP and destination sites are blocked
from seeing personal details, the VPN sees the entire journey. The way to
mitigate this is to route web traffic so that it "hops" between multiple VPN
providers. On Orchid, users can configure as many hops as they want. This
should result in no party -- even the VPNs -- having more than one piece of
the puzzle. Multi hop is therefore one of the biggest steps forward for online
privacy in recent years.

It is important to note that even with multiple hops, privacy is not absolute.
It is possible, for instance, that various VPNs could collaborate to piece
together a journey. But just as shredding a document greatly reduces the
chances of a third party gaining its information, multiple hops add a layer of
obfuscation that should be sufficient for most user needs.

**Transparency is golden**

VPNs, multiple hops, and nanopayments are strong tools for protecting privacy.
Another, perhaps counterintuitively, is transparency. One of the key
contributing factors to the modern crisis of privacy is a lack of transparency
on the part of Internet giants. The opacity of their processes and their
power, through overwhelming market dominance, to make and change the rules of
the game leave the individual right to privacy in serious jeopardy.

An antidote to this is open-sourcing of technology, which is the gold standard
for privacy and transparency. Orchid is fully committed to open-sourcing its
technology. We believe in the right and ability of others to take what we have
developed and build on top of it. We trust in the community to move our
collective interests forward, together. Orchid was not developed in order for
its innovations to be siloed and kept away from others. On the contrary, we
encourage developers to build on our foundation as we work together to deliver
the strongest possible privacy online.

Privacy matters. People have always understood this on a basic level. But
humanity, long accustomed to a world of physical interaction, has been slow to
recognize that the coming battle for privacy will be waged in the digital
realm. Now is the time to focus our collective attention on this issue. If we
commit to developing and implementing the most robust solutions, both legal
and technological, we can help ensure the survival of privacy as both an ideal
and a reality.

[Subscribe](https://7top7list.substack.com/about?utm_source=orchid-privacy-
matters-post) to Privacy Matters: Seven's top Seven Privacy and Crypto Review
for weekly updates on technology and privacy.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Privacy](/tag/privacy/)
  * [VPN](/tag/vpn/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Why%20Internet%20privacy%20matters%20more%20than%20ever%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fwhy-
internet-privacy-matters-more-than-ever%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fwhy-
internet-privacy-matters-more-than-ever%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fwhy-
internet-privacy-matters-more-than-ever%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/what-does-a-vpn-hide/)

#### What does a VPN hide?

](/what-does-a-vpn-hide/)

Apr 15, 2021

](/what-is-split-tunneling/)

[

#### What is split tunneling?

](/what-is-split-tunneling/)

May 3, 2021

](/why-ordinary-people-are-turning-to-vpns/)

[

#### Why Ordinary People Are Turning to VPNs

](/why-ordinary-people-are-turning-to-vpns/)

Jul 14, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

