![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
text.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-
logo-small.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)

![Open Menu](/img/icons/hamburger.svg)

![Close Menu](/img/icons/close.svg)

  * [Home](https://www.orchid.com/)
  * [Create Account](https://www.orchid.com/join)
  * [How It Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [OXT](https://www.orchid.com/oxt)
  * [About](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Blog](/)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)
  * ![](/img/globe.svg)English
    * [한국어](//blog.ko.orchid.com/why-orchids-in-app-purchases-are-a-game-changer-for-dapp-usage/)
    * [English](//blog.orchid.com/why-orchids-in-app-purchases-are-a-game-changer-for-dapp-usage/)
    * [日本](//blog.ja.orchid.com/why-orchids-in-app-purchases-are-a-game-changer-for-dapp-usage/)
    * [中文](//blog.zh.orchid.com/why-orchids-in-app-purchases-are-a-game-changer-for-dapp-usage/)
    * [Indonesian](//blog.id.orchid.com/why-orchids-in-app-purchases-are-a-game-changer-for-dapp-usage/)
    * [русский](//blog.ru.orchid.com/why-orchids-in-app-purchases-are-a-game-changer-for-dapp-usage/)

Download](//www.orchid.com/download)

# [Blog](/)

![Why Orchid’s in-app purchases are a game-changer for dapp
usage](/static/d1ce41b0c1c9fb2f7cf77c2028806874/Orchid_BlogImage_IAPs.jpg)

# Why Orchid’s in-app purchases are a game-changer for dapp usage

Jul 16, 2020  
  

Last week the Orchid app launched in Apple's App Store with in-app purchases,
a new feature that represents a major step forward for broad mainstream
adoption of the decentralized VPN marketplace. In-app purchases allow people
to get the full benefit of Orchid's privacy solution without needing to use
crypto directly at all.

The feature allows people to use the dapp with only fiat currency such as U.S.
Dollars (USD). There's no need to separately acquire or transfer
cryptocurrency at all, meaning people can now experience all the benefits of
Orchid's peer-to-peer bandwidth market with the same level of convenience as
any other app. This is expected to make Orchid, a crypto-powered decentralized
application, much more accessible to mainstream users.

In-app purchases may also pave the way for stronger mainstream crypto
adoption. While the name of the feature may sound run-of-the-mill, it
represents a huge step forward for people's ability to use crypto powered apps
without having to familiarize themselves with the nitty gritty of blockchain
mechanics.

**Crypto that doesn't feel like crypto**

In-app purchases are a crucial milestone in Orchid's growth. One of the main
obstacles to broad-based adoption of crypto-powered apps has been the
difficulty of setting up and using them. Before in-app purchases, for example,
Orchid [required](/how-to-start-using-orchid-with-oxt/) people to go through
several steps to set up an account, including acquiring the Orchid digital
currency (OXT) and ETH, installing a web3 browser, running smart contracts,
and transferring a key. Anyone who has spent time in the crypto space will be
familiar with these requirements, and understand how often they discourage
would-be users who are unfamiliar with wallets and tokens.

![](/img/WhisperBunny.png)

**Pssst! You can get privacy news delivered to your inbox.**

Subscribe

Your privacy is important to us. We will never share your information.

But now, rather than creating an account with their own cryptocurrency, users
can buy one that's been pre-created for them with only fiat currency such as
USD. To facilitate this, Orchid automatically pre-funds a "pool" of accounts
that can be assigned to users. A dedicated server manages an OXT/ETH wallet,
creates accounts, and pools these accounts together. When a user purchases
one, this same server assigns it to them at random. **The result is that, with
just a couple taps, anyone with an iOS device can download Orchid and browse
the Internet in privacy.**

When someone buys an account with an in-app purchase, it's their account --
they have a private key and can share across devices or with anyone they like.
The only difference is that these accounts can only be used to buy bandwidth
on Orchid, similar to a gift card. When they run low on OXT, the user receives
a notification, and can buy a new one. In fact, pre-filled accounts funded
through in-app purchases may provide yet another layer of security, since,
like a "burner phone," they are not permanently tied to any real-world
identity.

**User experience is key to adoption**

In-app purchases are a key testament to the fact that crypto-powered apps can
be as seamless to use as any other product. They lower barriers to use by
allowing people to set up an Orchid account and browse the Internet privately,
without any need to acquire tokens or fund an account. This is exactly what
will be needed for the Orchid's app (and crypto more broadly) to gain broad-
based adoption and truly transform online privacy. Most importantly, Orchid
achieves this without weakening its core premise -- offering people the
highest level of Internet privacy currently available. With in-app purchases,
Orchid has taken a step into a crypto-powered future.

* * *

 _If you enjoyed this blog,[subscribe here](https://www.orchid.com/newsletter-
signup) for privacy news, commentary, and product updates from Orchid._

  * [Company Updates](/tag/company-updates/)
  * [VPN](/tag/vpn/)

](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Why%20Orchid%E2%80%99s%20in-
app%20purchases%20are%20a%20game-
changer%20for%20dapp%20usage%22%20by%20%40OrchidProtocol%20https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fwhy-
orchids-in-app-purchases-are-a-game-changer-for-dapp-usage%2F
)[](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fwhy-
orchids-in-app-purchases-are-a-game-changer-for-dapp-usage%2F
)[](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.orchid.com%2Fwhy-
orchids-in-app-purchases-are-a-game-changer-for-dapp-usage%2F)

Download the app and join Orchid’s privacy network today!Get
Orchid](https://www.orchid.com/get-
orchid?utm_medium=website&utm_source=web&utm_campaign=blog-post-
sticky&utm_content=no-js-blog)

## Keep Reading

](/starting-today-it-only-costs-1-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

#### Starting today, it only costs $1 to get started with Orchid

](/starting-today-it-only-costs-1-to-get-started-with-orchid/)

Mar 25, 2021

](/get-started-with-orchid-on-android-for-just-1/)

[

#### Get started with Orchid on Android for just $1

](/get-started-with-orchid-on-android-for-just-1/)

May 24, 2021

](/oxt-is-listed-on-kucoin/)

[

#### OXT is listed on KuCoin

](/oxt-is-listed-on-kucoin/)

Sep 13, 2021

![](/img/coral-electric.svg)![](/img/coral-real.svg)![](/img/coral-real-
mobile.svg)![](/img/footer-fish.svg)

![Privacy & VPN Blog - Orchid](/img/orchid-logo-
world.svg)](https://www.orchid.com/)© 2022 Orchid Labs Inc.

[Privacy Policy](https://www.orchid.com/privacy-policy) | [Terms of
Service](https://www.orchid.com/service-terms)

  * [How it Works](https://www.orchid.com/how-it-works)
  * [About Us](https://www.orchid.com/about-us)
  * [Contact](https://www.orchid.com/contact)

  * [Download](https://www.orchid.com/download)
  * [Podcast](https://www.orchid.com/podcast)
  * [Blog](/)

  * [Whitepaper](https://www.orchid.com/assets/whitepaper/whitepaper.pdf)
  * [Partners](https://www.orchid.com/partners)
  * [FAQ](https://www.orchid.com/faq)

 **Follow Us**

  * [![Twitter](/img/icons/social-twitter.svg)](https://twitter.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![Reddit](/img/icons/reddit.svg)](https://www.reddit.com/r/orchid/)
  * [![Discord](/img/icons/social-discord.svg)](https://discord.gg/GDbxmjxX9F)
  * [![Telegram](/img/icons/social-telegram.svg)](https://www.t.me/OrchidOfficial)
  * [![Github](/img/icons/social-github.svg)](https://github.com/OrchidTechnologies)
  * [![Facebook](/img/icons/social-facebook.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/OrchidProtocol)
  * [![YouTube](/img/icons/social-youtube.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH_BKBlNemsCzDhPYZBlHw)
  * [![LinkedIn](/img/icons/social-linkedin.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/orchidprotocol)

