[ Woobull ](https://woobull.com)

  * [About](https://woobull.com/about/)
  * [Charts](http://charts.woobull.com/)
  * [Articles](https://woobull.com/)
  * [→ Research](https://woobull.com/tag/research/)
  * [→ Infographics](https://woobull.com/tag/infographic/)
  * [→ Humour](https://woobull.com/tag/humour/)
  * [→ Bitcoin](https://woobull.com/tag/bitcoin/)
  * [→ Markets](https://woobull.com/tag/markets/)
  * [→ Dataviz](https://woobull.com/tag/data-visualisation/)
  * [→ Altcoins](https://woobull.com/tag/altcoins/)
  * [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNSawUAJPtGqnhpucPqdDrw)

[ ](https://twitter.com/woonomic "Twitter")

Subscribe

[Research](https://woobull.com/tag/research/)

# Why does on-chain volume show an overly bearish picture of the 2018-2019
Bitcoin market?

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

#### [Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/)

Apr 4, 2019 • 2 min read

Let's delve into a mystery of this 2018-2019 bear market that [David
Puell](https://twitter.com/kenoshaking) and [Murad
Mahmudov](https://twitter.com/MustStopMurad) and I have been exploring for
months... Why does on-chain volume look so bearish while many of our other (to
be published) metrics tell a more positive story?

Up to now, whenever you saw a chart of mine that had on-chain volume as an
ingredient, the volume estimates came from
[Blockchain.com](https://www.blockchain.com/charts)'s API feed (BCHAIN). This
was the first and most reliable source until recently.

The Bitcoin Network needs sufficient on-chain volume in order to fuel a bull
market. BCHAIN volume estimates painted a very grim picture of the market, it
was saying "lots more bear to come".

![](https://woobull.com/content/images/2019/04/image-4.png)

If we wanted to double check BCHAIN volume estimates, how could we do this?

When you think about it, coins that are younger than 1 day of HODL means they
have shifted in the last 24hrs. This gives us an alternative estimate to 24hr
on-chain volume.

When I did this**, it suggested a drift in the BCHAIN volume estimates since
2017 to the low side. This would point towards an overly bearish picture from
BCHAIN.

![](https://woobull.com/content/images/2019/04/image-1.png)

In fact, 1d HODL "volume" pointed to the bottom being in for quite some time.
The accumulation band having already formed.

![](https://woobull.com/content/images/2019/04/image-2.png)

Fortunately we now have a completely new on-chain volume estimate from
[Coinmetrics](https://coinmetrics.io/), currently available in their CM Pro
suite***.

Here's how they stack up...

![](https://woobull.com/content/images/2019/04/image-3.png)

Both my 1 day HODL, and the new CM Pro volume estimates suggests the
accumulation bottom is now well under way.

* * *

** 1-day HODL coin volume is derived by multiplying Unchain Capital's 1d [HODL
Wave](https://blog.unchained-capital.com/bitcoin-data-science-pt-1-hodl-
waves-7f3501d53f63) chart with the circulating supply of Bitcoin.

*** CM Pro volume estimates are published under permission from
[Coinmetrics](https://coinmetrics.io/).

## Sign up for more like this.

Enter your email Subscribe

[

## Supply Shock, predicting price by quantifying intent to buy and sell

IntroductionIn any market, price is driven by demand and supply. This is a
fundamental. The most obvious way of seeing this is in the bid and asks
between buyers and sellers. A more nuanced way would be to wave a magic wand
and gauge the intent of investors before the

](/quantifying-supply-shock/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Aug 10, 2021 • 4 min read

[

## The two types of Altcoins, an investor's view

This is a thread on altcoins, first published on Twitter. Altcoins are
nuanced. We have: Protocol coinsUtility tokensSecurity tokensNon-fungible
tokensBut to an investor, there's only 2 types. Oscillators and Degenerators.
You can spot them on this chart of the entire market. The vast majority of
alt-coins are Degenerators. Their price

](/the-two-types-of-altcoins-an-investors-view/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Nov 7, 2019 • 2 min read

[

## Introducing the Difficulty Ribbon, signaling the best times to buy Bitcoin

Introducing the Bitcoin Difficulty Ribbon. When the ribbon compresses, or
flips negative, these are the best times to buy Bitcoin. The ribbon consists
of simple moving averages on mining difficulty so we can easily see the rate
of change in difficulty. How it the Difficulty Ribbon worksThis visualisation
of network

](/introducing-the-difficulty-ribbon-the-best-times-to-buy-bitcoin/)

  * [ ](/author/willywoo/)

[Willy Woo](/author/willywoo/) Aug 1, 2019 • 2 min read

[Woobull](https://woobull.com) (C) 2022

[Powered by Ghost](https://ghost.org/)

