[ ![NuCypher](https://blog.nucypher.com/content/images/2019/03/NuCypher-blu-
whi.png) ](https://blog.nucypher.com)

  * [Blog](https://blog.nucypher.com/)
  * [Website](https://www.nucypher.com/)
  * [Documentation](https://docs.nucypher.com/en/latest/)
  * [GitHub](https://github.com/nucypher)

[ ](https://twitter.com/nucypher "Twitter")

Subscribe

# WorkLock: A Call to Action

  * [ ](/author/tux/)

#### [tux](/author/tux/)

Aug 25, 2020 • 2 min read

![WorkLock: A Call to
Action](/content/images/size/w2000/2020/08/2020-08-24-11.15.32-1.jpg)

In the blockchain space we are constantly hearing the echoes of productivity
and progress; incremental changes to the status quo that, at each step, remind
us there exists a future molded by those who believe in an alternative one.

A future where privacy is held higher than a right, where censorship and
authoritarianism is a relic of failed states. A future where the relationships
between our neighbors are the most political and most sacred.

The cooperative ambition exhibited in each project launch (regardless of
success) continues to inspire all of us to remember this alternative and make
it a reality. Unfortunately, inspiration isn't enough; we must also work to
seize this future. The movement towards complete decentralization is
characterized and defined by each individual's unique will and ability to
seize this radical new world; you must find out for yourself how far you can
go.

We at NuCypher embrace this vision of a new world. We're dedicated to building
tools to help construct this future today. NuCypher stands in contrast to the
reign of FAANG (Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix, Google). The internet at
large is seemingly oppressed by "merchants of infrastructure" whose sole goal
is domination and ownership. Within the hegemony of the prevailing merchants
of infrastructure, it would be impossible to launch and build a decentralized
network such as NuCypher.

It's no secret that we're underdogs in this fight for our individual and
collective rights. However, today we'd like to think we made a difference and
pushed the needle a tad more in our favor. Only because the decentralized
movement has resisted this notion of electronic imperialism are we able to
even consider this alternative.

It's time we turn over our multi-year long efforts and reach out to the
community.

Today we are announcing the launch of our WorkLock contract to bootstrap our
decentralized threshold cryptography network.

NuCypher's threshold cryptography network is a small step into a radical
world; a tool leveraging novel cryptography primitives, like Proxy Re-
Encryption, to construct something never before seen.

By temporarily staking ETH in our WorkLock contract, you will be given an
option to stake NU tokens to run a NuCypher threshold cryptography node and
embrace, with us, this vision of a radical world.

As a NU staker, you will earn inflation rewards and ETH fees paid by users of
the network.

We invite you to read the [WorkLock details](https://blog.nucypher.com/the-
worklock/) and help us take on the merchants of infrastructure and fight their
tyranny of electronic imperialism.

## Sign up for more like this.

Enter your email Subscribe

[ ![Developer Update - Abiotic Alice and DKG \(October
2021\)](/content/images/size/w600/2021/10/2021-10-13-10.46.21.jpg)
](/developer-update-october-2021/)

[

## Developer Update - Abiotic Alice and DKG (October 2021)

NuCypher's proxy re-encryption (PRE) service is leveling up. Recently, the
demand for access-conditioned content in Web3 has exploded: subscriptions,
streaming, private NFTs, NFTs as access tokens, the list goes on. Many of
those are building on NuCypher (soon Threshold!) and proxy re-encryption. For
example: Masterfile is building an enterprise NFT

](/developer-update-october-2021/)

  * [ ![MacLane Wilkison](/content/images/size/w100/2019/05/IMG_8077.jpg) ](/author/maclane/)

[MacLane Wilkison](/author/maclane/) Oct 13, 2021 • 3 min read

[

## NuCypher Community Update - September 2021

Once a month we'll be putting out community updates in the format of team
member interviews. September's update is an interview NuCypher's CTO, David
Nuñez.

](/september-nu-community-update/)

  * [ ![Ryan Caruso](/content/images/size/w100/2020/12/IMG_5522.JPG) ](/author/ryan/)

[Ryan Caruso](/author/ryan/) Sep 17, 2021 • 13 min read

[

## NuCypher + Keep: KEaNU AMA, Hosted by Staking Hub

Hey NuCypher and Keep community, here is the transcribed copy of the AMA
hosted by Figment's Staking Hub. Thanks to the hosts, the Nu + Keep team, and
those who asked questions from the community.

](/nucypher-keep-keanu-ama-hosted-by-staking-hub/)

  * [ ![Ryan Caruso](/content/images/size/w100/2020/12/IMG_5522.JPG) ](/author/ryan/)

[Ryan Caruso](/author/ryan/) Jun 28, 2021 • 9 min read

[NuCypher](https://blog.nucypher.com) (C) 2022

  * [Telegram](https://t.me/nucypher)
  * [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/7rmXa3S)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/nucypher)

[Powered by Ghost](https://ghost.org/)

