[![esprezzo-logo@2x](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-fs/hubfs/esprezzo-
logo@2x.png?width=261&name=esprezzo-logo@2x.png)](https://esprezzo.io)

  * [Products](https://esprezzo.io/products)
  * [Developers](https://esprezzo.io/developers)
  * [About](https://esprezzo.io/about)
  * [Blog](https://blog.esprezzo.io)
  * [GET AN INVITE](https://esprezzo.io/invite)

##  [The Esprezzo Blog](https://blog.esprezzo.io)

# XPZ: A Cross-Chain Asset

by [Esprezzo Team](https://blog.esprezzo.io/author/esprezzo-team) on February
21, 2020

  * [Tweet](https://twitter.com/share)
  *   * 

As we continue to prepare our smart contract integration product suite for
beta testing and follow developments in the blockchain space, it’s becoming
increasingly clear how important interoperability and token portability is
going to be. That’s why we created XPZ, an experiment in building a
sustainable and extensible cross-chain programmable asset.

At Esprezzo we are building an ecosystem of tools and services to help
developers more easily integrate smart contracts and blockchain services into
new and existing applications. This includes a library of smart contracts that
are easy to configure and deploy via our SaaS platform and require no working
knowledge of smart contract development.

Our goal is to extend our libraries and APIs to serve as many types of clients
and projects as possible. We want to offer a platform that enables all levels
of developers to bring blockchain products to market efficiently and in a
forward-thinking, sustainable manner.

## Why XPZ?

Much of our smart contract work requires a digital asset that is purely smart
contract based and provides abilities that do not fit well into "layer 1" or
"gas" token such as PRKL, and is not native to, and stuck on its "own
blockchain".

While [the Perkle blockchain](/what-is-perkle-prkl) is the core, first layer
platform we are developing on and deploying to, we want to extend our second
layer tools and services across additional networks to provide the greatest
flexibility and choice for developers. By being purely smart-contract based,
XPZ serves a distinctly different (cross-chain) purpose than PRKL, a token
native to the Perkle blockchain. Token portability means XPZ won’t be forever
tied to the blockchain on which it originated (Perkle), increasing its
utility.

## Token Portability

Currently, XPZ only exists on the Perkle blockchain and can only be obtained
using Perkle. Later this year XPZ will be "bridged" to Ethereum mainnet, so
that XPZ can be transferred from Perkle to Ethereum and vice versa. In the
future XPZ should have the ability to integrate with services on any
blockchain or programmable network that we see value in supporting and we will
continue to explore emerging networks and protocols. The decision to integrate
with or deploy on new networks will be based on user demand, goal alignment
and technical feasibility.

XPZ is an exercise in cross-chain interoperability and middleware bridge
technology; our first priority remains getting our smart contract integration
tools ready for beta testing. Releasing XPZ is providing valuable feedback,
with our community helping test this contract that will eventually be added to
our growing smart contract library.

We have been seeing strong demand for our tools across various verticals
including healthcare, financial services and nonprofits. If you are working on
a project and interested in utilizing Esprezzo’s smart contract templates,
API, SDKs or bridge technology please [**reach
out**](https://info.esprezzo.io/contact) to learn more about our pilot
program.

##### Possible use cases for XPZ:

  * A subject to test ERC20-compliant staking and [Decentralized Finance (DeFi)](https://blog.coinbase.com/a-beginners-guide-to-decentralized-finance-defi-574c68ff43c4) contracts
  * A way to describe and create value with on-chain oracles and data provider services
  * A default smart-contract-based asset to use across our growing ecosystem

##### XPZ Token Details:

  * Symbol: XPZ
  * Decimals: 18
  * Token contract supply hard cap: 10 Billion (10,000,000,000) XPZ
  * Initial minting contract (total supply) capped at 1 Billion (1,000,000,000) XPZ
  * Build: ERC20+

##### **Checking XPZ Balance in Your Discord wallet:**

To check the balance of XPZ in your Discord wallet, type the following into
Discord:

`!token balance xpz`

PerkleBot will display your current balance of XPZ in a private message.

##### **Adding XPZ to MEW**

For security, you may want to transfer your XPZ to MyEtherWallet (MEW) instead
of keeping it in your Discord wallet.

As XPZ sits on top of Perkle, you’ll need to[ connect MEW to
Perkle](https://blog.esprezzo.io/how-to-use-perkle-prkl-with-myetherwallet-
mew-oct19-update). Make sure you set the correct port and chain ID!

After you’ve connected to Perkle, you should see the following in the Network
box:

![screen shot of MyEtherWallet dashboard connected to Perkle
blockchain](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-fs/hubfs/MyEtherWallet_Perkle-
Network-1.jpg?width=2400&name=MyEtherWallet_Perkle-Network-1.jpg)

Now to add XPZ, click “+ Custom Tokens” in the Tokens box underneath the
Network box:

![Screenshot of MyEtherWallet dashboard with Custom Tokens box
circled](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-fs/hubfs/MyEtherWallet_Perkle-
Network_Tokens.jpg?width=2400&name=MyEtherWallet_Perkle-Network_Tokens.jpg)

You should see this pop-up:

![Screen shot of MyEtherWallet - form for adding a custom
token](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-fs/hubfs/MyEtherWallet_Perkle_Add-Custom-
Token.jpg?width=2400&name=MyEtherWallet_Perkle_Add-Custom-Token.jpg)

Fill in the fields as follows:

  1. **Token Contract Address** : 0x824B98BdbD2AFB7D5f5AcFeAF68e5e99e5A8aFa5
  2. **Token Symbol:** XPZ
  3. **Decimals** : 18

![ Screen shot of MyEtherWallet dashboard - form for adding XPZ
token](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-fs/hubfs/MyEtherWallet_Perkle_Add-Custom-
Token_XPZ.jpg?width=2400&name=MyEtherWallet_Perkle_Add-Custom-Token_XPZ.jpg)

Click **Save**. You should now see XPZ listed in the Tokens box with a balance
of 0. Here is what mine looks like after we sent 1 XPZ to MEW. We’ll go
through how to do that next.

![Screen shot of MyEtherWallet dashboard - custom token XPZ added to
wallet](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-fs/hubfs/MyEtherWallet_Perkle_XPZ-added-
to-wallet.jpg?width=2400&name=MyEtherWallet_Perkle_XPZ-added-to-wallet.jpg)

##### **Transferring XPZ to MEW**

To transfer XPZ from your Discord wallet to MEW, copy the address from the
Address box in MEW:

![Screen shot of MyEtherWallet dashboard with wallet address
circled](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-
fs/hubfs/MyEtherWallet_address.jpg?width=2400&name=MyEtherWallet_address.jpg)

You’ll be pasting your address in a PerkleBot command on Discord:

`!token transfer <your MEW address> <number of XPZ you wish to transfer> xpz `

In the example below, the user is sending 1 XPZ from their Discord wallet to
MEW:

![Esprezzo Discord PerkleBot token transfer
command](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-fs/hubfs/Discord-
wallet_transfer_MEW.jpg?width=2400&name=Discord-wallet_transfer_MEW.jpg)

You’ll see a private message from PerkleBot in Discord:

![Esprezzo Discord PerkleBot transaction confirmation
message](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-fs/hubfs/PerkleBot_tx-
confirmation.jpg?width=2400&name=PerkleBot_tx-confirmation.jpg)

To view the transaction on [the block
explorer](https://explorer.esprezzo.io/), click on the blue “Transaction Sent”
link. It may take a minute or two for the block containing the transaction to
get mined and the transaction information to show up.

To view your XPZ balance on MEW you may need to click the refresh button in
the Tokens section:

![screen shot showing how to refresh MyEtherWallet custom token
balance](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-fs/hubfs/MyEtherWallet_tokens-
refresh.jpg?width=2400&name=MyEtherWallet_tokens-refresh.jpg)

And that’s it!

Have questions or feedback? Need help or just want to chat with the team and
other community members? [Join us on Discord](https://discord.gg/uuCT89F)!

You might be interested in  **Dispatch** , a tool we're working on that makes
it super easy and fast to create blockchain-based notifications and
automations.  
  
[![Request an invite to Dispatch](https://no-
cache.hubspot.com/cta/default/4632193/3e2447ad-3817-4657-bba3-66eb3e121fbe.png)](https://cta-
redirect.hubspot.com/cta/redirect/4632193/3e2447ad-3817-4657-bba3-66eb3e121fbe)  

Topics: [News](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/news),
[Perkle](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/perkle)

![Esprezzo Team](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hubfs/favicon-196-1.png)

###### [Esprezzo Team](https://blog.esprezzo.io/author/esprezzo-team)

We're on a mission to make it easier and faster for anyone to use blockchain
data to drive decisions and workflow automations. Whether you're a DeFi
enthusiast, crypto trader or developer building revolutionary blockchain-based
applications, we're here to help you bring your vision to reality.

[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/esprezzoapp/)
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/esprezzo-app/)
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/esprezzoapp)

## Esprezzo and blockchain-related news for developers and business leaders

Best practices and industry news for growing your business with decentralized
and blockchain-integrated applications

### Subscribe Here!

### Recent Posts

### Posts by Tags

  * [News (14)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/news)
  * [Events (12)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/events)
  * [Product Updates (10)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/product-updates)
  * [Perkle (9)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/perkle)
  * [Research & Analysis (7)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/research-analysis)
  * [Education (6)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/education)
  * [Partnerships (5)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/partnerships)
  * [Blockchain 101 (4)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/blockchain-101)
  * [Press Release (1)](https://blog.esprezzo.io/tag/press-release)

See all

### Technology

[Perkle Protocol](https://esprezzo.io/perkle)

[GitHub](https://github.com/esprezzo)

### Company

[About](https://esprezzo.io/about)

[Blog](https://blog.esprezzo.io)

[Contact](https://esprezzo.io/about#contact)

### Connect

[Discord](https://discord.gg/uuCT89F)

[Twitter](https://twitter.com/esprezzoapp)

[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/esprezzo-app/)

**Stay in the know**

Get news and product updates from Esprezzo

[![esprezzo_logo_red-white_sept2020@2x](https://blog.esprezzo.io/hs-
fs/hubfs/esprezzo_logo_red-
white_sept2020@2x.png?width=263&name=esprezzo_logo_red-
white_sept2020@2x.png)](https://esprezzo.io)

©2020 Esprezzo. All rights reserved.

