[

# Akasha

](/)

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)

[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)

[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)

[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)

[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)

[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![Open
search](data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBoZWlnaHQ9IjE4IiB3aWR0aD0iMTgiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyI+PGcgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgZmlsbC1ydWxlPSJldmVub2RkIiBzdHJva2U9IiM1MzYyN2MiIHN0cm9rZS13aWR0aD0iMS4yIiB0cmFuc2Zvcm09InRyYW5zbGF0ZSgxIDEpIj48Y2lyY2xlIGN4PSI2LjIyMiIgY3k9IjYuMjIyIiByPSI2LjIyMiIvPjxwYXRoIGQ9Im0xNiAxNi01LjMyOC01LjMyOCIgc3Ryb2tlLWxpbmVjYXA9InJvdW5kIiBzdHJva2UtbGluZWpvaW49InJvdW5kIi8+PC9nPjwvc3ZnPg==)

![Years of Effort, Experience, and
Experimentation](/static/73042aae2abdead108dcf0c126355386/2a43b/header.jpg)

[Community](/blog/category/community/)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

## Years of Effort, Experience, and Experimentation

By [Joshua Long](/blog/author/joshua-long/)

·

June 25, 2020

At the time of writing we are on the cusp of the five-year anniversary of the
Ethereum blockchain's genesis; a lot of things have happened in those five
years as the Ethereum ecosystem has grown and ethereans have thought deeply
about the many different applications of this world-changing technology:

_" man, Ethereum is this decentralized finance platform"_

_" na na na, Ethereum is a world computer,"_

We have all been the scientists touching the Ethereum elephant and giving our
own view of what the smaller part of the whole that we hold in our hands is.

[ ![elephant](/static/1c45f69109b0da3ffaa90844472b1a8f/1c72d/elephant.jpg)
](/static/1c45f69109b0da3ffaa90844472b1a8f/4e640/elephant.jpg)

[Our first ever AKASHA blog
post](https://akasha.org/blog/2016/05/03/unveiling-akasha) discussed the
problem of centralized architecture and the incredibly short life of
information on the Internet, looking at the ways that we could work to provide
the world with _a better home of mind:_

_We are living in an information-based society that has outsourced its freedom
of expression and collective memory to corporations that don 't always have
our best interests at heart._

[Three weeks later](https://akasha.org/blog/2016/05/26/update-highlights-and-
interesting-developments) we had combined IPFS, Orbit-DB, and Ethereum smart
contract events in order to create _the “missing link” between IPFS and
Ethereum,_ opening _the path to many interesting things that weren’t possible
before._

All the way along this journey we aimed to try and find the best way that we
could possibly support ethereans, the best thing that we could build to make
sure that our contribution to the ecosystem was creating as much value as
possible. We've experimented with identity, cryptoeconomics, and colorful
essence amongst a wide variety of other exciting things, [all the while
maintaining that](https://akasha.org/blog/2018/04/18/akasha-web-mend-the-gap):

_AKASHA will not conduct an “ICO” just for the purpose of raising money. We
are a self-funded and experiment-driven project._

As we've evolved and experimented, the Ethereum ecosystem has done just the
same, with a large quantity of amazing and driven organizations and
individuals looking into new models of financing, ways of building
organizations, and methods for making decisions as well as a whole bundle of
other radical experiments, too numerous to mention.

During this period the smoothness of the user experience has improved, but
there is still a big gap between where we are now and the shiny nature of the
things that we aim to replace. We saw this gap as an opportunity to bring to
bear all of the knowledge from our past experiments and all of these amazing
experiences in order to create something that could potentiate the efforts of
our fellow ethereans: [Ethereum World](https://ethereum.world/).

Take those great pieces of functionality, tie them together with the ability
to post, comment, converse, debate, and you have something truly unique and
exciting which matches up very well with the journey that AKASHA has been on
through the years.

_This process is less intimidating and more accessible. The keywords here are:
accessibility, ease of use, and adoption ... It helps to imagine maybe
something like creating an Aragon DAO; maybe the next post would be linked to
this with a proposal the next with a bounty; and the next with an NFT
collectible for the people that participated in the DAO or in the proposal.
The possibilities are kind of cool looking ahead._

Ethereum dapps all working together, synthesizing with each other and
producing heretofore unknown possibilities. **This could be very powerful,**
and as always we invite you to join us in this experimentation, we cannot do
this without active co-creation with the community.

There is another big reason to engage with [Ethereum
World](https://ethereum.world/) though, and that is because this is the first
_world_ of hopefully many that will be built using _The AKASHA World
Framework:_

_...kind of like a WordPress for social networks where people and communities
can deploy their own customized, purpose-built, purposeful social networks
fulfilling whatever needs they have as a community._

This initial period of work on the Framework is crucial as it will affect the
possibilities that are available to future world creators and people using it,
affecting the ability that it has to radically change the toolset that
different communities have to work, communicate, and most crucially effect
change within the area that is their focus.

Interactions with the platform aren't just you yourself deriving some benefit
from unlocking new possibilities, you will be actively co-creating just
through the act of engaging with the Framework, helping us to ensure that the
beautiful, open-source tool that will hopefully be deployed by many intrepid
individuals is the best it possibly can be.

Our vision of how we can progress the first World, Ethereum World, into a
fully participant-owned and governed social network will be a part of an
upcoming blog. We are very excited about this piece of work, and look forward
to watching its deployment and growth over the coming months and years.

We are on the cusp of both this important anniversary for Ethereum and an
AKASHA release which holds inside of it the product of years of effort,
experience, and experimentation. We hope to see you in this new world sometime
soon.

[Community](/blog/category/community/)

[Thoughts & Ideas](/blog/category/thoughts-ideas/)

# Previous blog posts.

[View all blog posts](/blog)

[![AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for
Moderating](/static/c3d734e207288654ade010406c34342a/14b42/header.jpg)](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-
conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #5 — Intentional Culture Design for Moderating

What is the culture of your workplace? Your education establishment? Your
neighbourhood? If we adopt…

](/blog/2022/05/02/akasha-conversation-05-decentralized-moderation)

By [Philip Sheldrake](/blog/author/philip-sheldrake/)

May 02, 2022

[![The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT
2022](/static/15c6e612bdcbb47badfb90416ab21ae8/14b42/Comporta%20Villa.jpg)](/blog/2022/04/29/the-
akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[Design](/blog/category/design/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[

### The AKASHA Foundation team at OFFSCRIPT 2022

María Sanmartín and Martin Etzrodt gathered for Offscript - a conference
focused on Web 3 UX and…

](/blog/2022/04/29/the-akasha-foundation-at-offscript-2022)

By [Martin Etzrodt & Maria Sanmartin](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt-maria-
sanmartin/)

April 29, 2022

[![AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social
networking](/static/62859025e753772da19e08c60e815e54/ee604/header.png)](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-
conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

[Moderation](/blog/category/moderation/)

[Governance](/blog/category/governance/)

[Conversation](/blog/category/conversation/)

[Events](/blog/category/events/)

[

### AKASHA Conversations #4 — Designing legitimate moderation in decentralized
social networking

AKASHA Conversations is a monthly event where we explore the critical aspects
of decentralized…

](/blog/2022/03/25/akasha-conversation-04-decentralized-moderation)

By [Martin Etzrodt](/blog/author/martin-etzrodt/)

March 25, 2022

## Keep in the loop.

Subscribe to our newsletter.

Subscribe to newsletter

![Keep in the
loop.](/static/0861535edb53edfcb9578bdc137e3d45/47498/newsletter.jpg)

[

# Akasha

](/)

Get in touch, we are friendly people

[](https://discordapp.com/invite/JqqKasJ)[](https://twitter.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://www.facebook.com/AKASHAorg)[](https://github.com/AKASHAorg/)[](https://www.reddit.com/r/AkashaProject)[](https://www.linkedin.com/company/akashaorg/)[](https://www.youtube.com/c/Akashaorg)

Projects

[Ethereum.world](https://ethereum.world/)

[AKASHA.world](https://akasha.world/)

[AKASHA Hubs](/hubs)

The Foundation

[About](/about/)

[Blog](/blog/)

[Careers](/careers/)

[Contact us](/contact/)

[Events](/events/)

[Friends](/friends/)

[Press](/press)

Resources

[Style Guide](https://style.akasha.org/)

[Glossary](/glossary/)

[Legal](/legal/) ·

[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy/)

CC BY-SA 4.0 AKASHA Foundation

![tracker](https://akasha.matomo.cloud/piwik.php?idsite=2&rec=1&url=https://akasha.org/blog/2020/06/25/years-
of-effort)

