[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# Z!P: A stable crypto commodity

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

Z!P: A stable crypto commodity

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_geoff-150x150.jpg)

March 2020

Posted by

Geoff LeFevre

Crypto-economics Analyst

Previously as a product manager at Shortest Track, he worked at the
intersection of AI and blockchain designing token economies to support
enterprise AI initiatives. He has also advised a number of early-stage
projects on token design and ICO issuances....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1290)

# Where is Web 3?

Web3 adoption indicators are down. The number of DApps deployed per month, and
monthly active developers per month have been on a downward trajectory since
January 2019. The issue is not the technology itself: Web3 is a nascent space,
but its technology stack is quickly maturing. One of the key challenges lies
in its complexity. We believe one of the most important barriers to meaningful
adoption of the emergent Web 3 Stack is the volatility of tokens: both gas and
token price as a commodity. At Outlier Ventures we have spent several months
bringing together a multidisciplinary team to solve this specific
interoperability problem. The solution is something we call ZIP.

Posted by Geoff LeFevre - March 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2018/03/ov_geoff-150x150.jpg)

March 2020

Posted by

Geoff LeFevre

Crypto-economics Analyst

Previously as a product manager at Shortest Track, he worked at the
intersection of AI and blockchain designing token economies to support
enterprise AI initiatives. He has also advised a number of early-stage
projects on token design and ICO issuances....[read
more](https://outlierventures.io/?post_type=team&p=1290)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

# ![Z!P: A stable crypto commodity Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Screen-
Shot-2020-03-27-at-10.36.46-AM.png)

# Barriers to Adoption

For two systems to effectively interoperate they must be able to communicate
and exchange data in such a way that the data exchanged is understandable to
each system. However, ensuring that the data exchanged is easily understood by
the receiving system can be as complex, if not more so than the systems
themselves.



Whether you believe in a future where there will be many different
blockchains, where every DApp and DAO will operate its own chain and they will
have their own native token, or a future with just a handful of layer 1
protocols - the user experience with even a single token is too complex for
the majority of potential users, and developers.



The Enterprise perspective is also an important one to consider. The
volatility of ledger costs and token prices makes it impossible to plan costs
and budgets around high value use cases. Another major issue pointed out in
our conversations with enterprises is that they do not want to be locked into
one single protocol, especially this early in Web3’s lifecycle. However,
currently the vast majority of all DApps are single network applications.



Companies select cloud platforms based on convenience, not pricing. But up to
now, tooling for cross chain integrations has focused largely on technical
scalability and interoperability, with little attention being paid to economic
interoperability or the incentives required for internal experimentation with
a Web3 technology stack.



# Interoperability

Interoperability is a very nuanced subject and deserves a brief unpacking. As
mentioned, the two principal layers of interoperability are 1) the actual
exchange of data and 2) the understanding of that data.



The actual exchange of data is a technical undertaking and something that a
lot of awesome teams are working on. Teams like
[Biconomy](https://biconomy.io/) are working on a relayer as service
infrastructure which would enable DApp developers to cover the meta
transactions of their users, similar to how a merchant might cover your
debit/credit card fees. [Loom](https://loomx.io/) has built a multi-chain
interoperability platform for DApp developers, and many more much needed
solutions are in production. These are both great projects, and they address
very critical issues concerning UX and data exchange across networks, but
interoperability is multi-faceted.



Ensuring that the received data is actually understood is a very complex
problem. Loom, Biconomy, and other great projects like
[Fission](https://fission.codes/) do a great job offering tooling for
developers, but economic complexity and interoperability remains an unsolved
issue - it is still very difficult to get tokens from one network into
another.



Even for just a single network, the price of the token and its ledger fees/
gas costs/ transaction fees are both volatile. In our vision of Web3 where
DApps leverage multiple protocols for a single use case, this volatility
becomes magnified as a use case scales. Each protocol is working on their own
mechanism to address these issues, but there is a lack of mechanism
composition. The non-linear effects of mechanism composition can be huge.



Enterprises want convenience and pricing they can plan around. Developers need
a unit of account tied to actual usage, and consumers just want the simplicity
of a single (or no!) tokens.



Enter ZIP.



# Z!P ****

ZIP is a POC we want to now open up as a collaborative community based
project.



Our objective with ZIP is to develop a stable crypto commodity that abstracts
the economic complexity for developers looking to build, deploy, and operate
multi-network integrations. ZIP will provide a single unit of account across
multiple ledger, stable usage prices, enable multi-network ‘cloud-credits’,
and AWS-like pricing models that appeal to enterprises.



ZIP is a multi-network gas station backed by a collateral pool. The token
itself is a burn-and-mint model with four key elements to its operation:



![Z!P: A stable crypto commodity Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Screen-
Shot-2020-03-27-at-11.42.48-AM-1.png)

  1. Network tokens are locked up as collateral.
  2. ZIP is minted at the market rate according to an oracle and smart contract.
  3. Users purchase ZIP tokens (via a DEX with an optional fiat-on-ramp).
  4. When ZIP is spent, the tokens are burned, and the collateral is used to cover the cost of ledger use.



ZIP is pegged to a universal unit of compute, i.e. the price of ledger
operations in USD. The abstraction is analogous to FLOPS, and the price to the
user is stable, updating quarterly according to a forecasting model. The
margin on actual ledger costs versus the sale price of ZIP serves as the
project’s primary source of revenue once fully operational, very similar to
how a futures market operates.



The collateral pool is a managed basket of tokens that can be used to build
DApps across the networks corresponding to the tokens it contains.

![Z!P: A stable crypto commodity Outlier
Ventures](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/zip-
mockup.png)



## Key Network Roles

Like many of the projects in Web3, ZIP will require a community of
stakeholders to participate in network roles designed to operate the network.
Current work is focused on designing the specific work flows and incentives
for each key role, and details will be released in a following post. Broadly
supply side roles can be broken up into two categories:



**Liquidity providers** are participants that lock tokens up as collateral to
mint ZIP. They are incentivised via basket interest achieved through
[**Alkemi**](https://alkemi.network/),
[**Balancer**](https://balancer.finance/), or a similar approach. They may
also wish to lock tokens up aiming to hedge against their own token volatility
since ZIP is not pegged to USD, but instead to a global measure of compute.

**Peg Management Keepers** : These network roles will be key to ZIP operations
entrusted with ensuring the ZIP peg is maintained, very similar to how Keepers
on MakerDAO ensure Dai’s peg is maintained. However, in FUEL,
[**Fetch**](https://fetch.ai/) Agents will be leveraged to execute operations
also based on predictions as opposed to only observed volatility.



## Value to Users

Demand side roles for ZIP are largely centered around the utility of ZIP.
Users of ZIP can be end users, developers, or companies. Below we briefly
outline some potential utilities for ZIP.

  * ZIP can be used as multi-network cloud credits. 
  * ZIP enables enterprise friendly pricing - seeking to be stable and predictable - and can act as an entitlement tool for development contracts clearly showing the amount of resources being allocated and consumed by a given application. 
  * ZIP can be used as an incentive tool by enterprises to enable their developers to freely experiment with existing Web3 tools and infrastructure instead of building in-house tooling from scratch. 
  * ZIP allows its users to avoid platform lock by tapping into external developer networks and tooling. 
  * ZIP can be used by networks to lock tokens up guaranteed to be allocated for internal network functionality. This encourages internal velocity of the token inside the network, as opposed to externally on exchanges. 
  * ZIP can be a simple onramp for users looking to interact with Web3 protocols and DApps (made even simpler with a fiat-on-ramp) 



# What’s Next

Our plan with ZIP is to make it an open source tool for any group of networks,
DApps, DAOs, Developers, or enterprises to abstract the economic complexity
away from building on Web3. Our hope is that by empowering the ZIP community
to abstract the economic complexity away from Web3, the adoption required to
bootstrap a cambrian explosion of network roles (remote work!) can begin to
take shape.



We are currently building out our POC, and in planning stages for our MVP at
which point all code will be made open source with the objective of having it
evolve into a plug-and-play piece of infrastructure for existing Web3
developer tooling.



The purpose for releasing this post is to start to grow the community around
this project leading up to our official release. We are actively seeking
Developers and Token Engineers to begin hacking on some of the fun challenges
that lie ahead. Or, if you think your project can benefit from ZIP, please get
in touch as well.



However you would like to get involved, please join our [Discord
channel](https://discord.gg/4ngq4ZW) for updates and to connect directly with
Theo or myself. Look forward to everyone’s input!



_In no particular order, thanks to Don Gossen, Dimitri De Jonghe, Eden
Dhaliwal, Michael Reuter, the team at LimeChain, Alexander Ramsey, Jeff
Emmett, Sebastian Wrobel, Trent McConaghy, Boris Mann, Jake Brukhman, Ryan
Breen, Toby Simpson, Humayun Sheikh, Eddy Louchart, Marta Piekarska-Geater,
Bob Crozier, John Calian, Christian Kourtis, Dominic Moore, Aron van Ammers,
Joel John, Jamie Burke, and our colleagues at Outlier Ventures for your
insights._





**Disclaimer**

_This document (the “Document”) has been prepared by Outlier Ventures
Operations Limited (“Outlier Ventures”). Outlier Ventures Operations Ltd is
registered in England and Wales, company registration number 10722638. Outlier
Ventures Operations Ltd is an appointed representative of Sapia Partners LLP
(“Sapia”) which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority
(Firm Reference Number 550103)._

_No undertaking, warranty or other assurance is given, and none should be
implied, as to, and no reliance should be placed on, the accuracy,
completeness or fairness of the information or opinions contained in this
Document. The information contained in the Document is not subject to
completion, alteration and verification nor should it be assumed that the
information in the Document will be updated. The information contained in the
Document has not been verified by Sapia, Outlier Ventures or any of its
associates or affiliates._

_The Document should not be considered a recommendation by Sapia, Outlier
Ventures or any of its directors, officers, employees, agents or advisers in
connection with any purchase of or subscription for securities. The value of
any investment may go down as well as up. Recipients should not construe the
contents of this Document as legal, tax, regulatory, financial or accounting
advice and are urged to consult with their own advisers in relation to such
matters. The information contained in the Document has been prepared purely
for informational purposes. In all cases persons should conduct their own
investigation and analysis of the data in the Document. The information
contained in the Document has not been approved by the Financial Conduct
Authority. This Document does not constitute, or form part of, any offer of,
or invitation to apply for, securities nor shall it, or the fact of its
distribution, form the basis of or be relied upon in connection with any
contract or commitment to acquire any securities._

_Any forecasts, opinions, estimates and projections contained in the Document
constitute the judgement of Outlier Ventures and are provided for illustrative
purposes only. Such forecasts, opinions, estimates and projections involve
known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the
actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from
any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such
forecasts, opinions, estimates and projections. Accordingly no warrant
(express or implied) is or will be made or given in relation to, and (except
in the case of wilful fraud) no responsibility or liability is or will be
accepted by Sapia, Outlier Ventures or any of its directors, officers,
employees, agents or advisers in respect of, such forecasts, opinions,
estimates and projections or their achievement or reasonableness. Recipients
of the Document must determine for themselves the reliance (if any) that they
should place on such forecasts, opinions, estimates and projections._

_Information contained in the Document may not be distributed, published or
reproduced in whole or in part or disclosed to any other person. The
distribution of any document provided at or in connection with the Document in
jurisdictions other than the United Kingdom may be restricted by law and
therefore persons into whose possession any such documents may come should
inform themselves about and observe any such restrictions._

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

