

Menu

#  [![Placeholder](//images.squarespace-
cdn.com/content/v1/5a479ee3b7411c6102f75729/1547646516693-WBRREM74TRC4IAX5G0PN/Placeholder%2BLogo.png?format=1500w)](/)

Street Address

City, State, Zip

Phone Number

Your Custom Text Here

# [![Placeholder](//images.squarespace-
cdn.com/content/v1/5a479ee3b7411c6102f75729/1547646516693-WBRREM74TRC4IAX5G0PN/Placeholder%2BLogo.png?format=1500w)](/)

# Placeholder Blog

Placeholder Blog

#  [Zcash Thesis ](/blog/2020/9/15/zcash-thesis)

September 15, 2020 [Chris Burniske](/blog?author=5abcb505a4f0023ef9d62e2b)

_Note: Placeholder holds Zcash’s ZEC._

Many folks in crypto today think about privacy backwards; instead of making
sure their assets are private, they make the mistake of solely fixating on
transactions being private. This is why we see people sending assets through
mixers or coin-tumblers, only to return to transparent and trackable
addresses, defeating the point of the mixer. Zooko Wilcox, a core contributing
member of the Zcash community, [voiced the confusion as
follows](https://twitter.com/zooko/status/1284956301299036161?s=20):

“You have to *store* your crypto in a private cryptosystem if you want
privacy. Then it is safe to *move* it through a transparent system!
Unfortunately, almost everyone has this backwards.”

We envision a world where large amounts of value is privately stored on Zcash,
with myriad integrations into smart-contract protocols and vibrant digital
economies. From the private store of value that ZEC (Zcash’s native
cryptomoney) represents, people can safely transact in open economic systems.
Already it’s possible to enter Ethereum privately through the combination of
Zcash and [Ren Protocol](https://renproject.io/), and as much as we appreciate
this implementation, it’s just the beginning. Efforts like the [Zcash
Developer Alliance](https://electriccoin.co/zcash-developer-
alliance/#:~:text=The%20Zcash%20Developer%20Alliance%20was,interoperability%20across%20select%20cryptocurrency%20projects.)
are working to make the vision of interoperable-and-private-value stemming
from Zcash a widespread reality. Vitalik [gets it.
](https://twitter.com/ElectricCoinCo/status/1301232283781824514?s=20)

The instinct to keep the value of private-assets _private_ is naturally baked
into our social structure; it’s not typical to discuss the value of your
house, your stock holdings, your annual pay. The reason is simple. Once
someone knows these things, this new information causes them to treat you
differently, even if the information isn’t relevant to your relationship. The
simple act of observation changes the relation.

We see this phenomenon [all the way down to the quantum
scale](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q1YqgPAtzho), where a particle that is
_not actively observed_ as it passes through two slits behaves like a wave
(potentialities), whereas a particle that is _observed_ collapses down to a
single point, a single potentiality. The watcher changes the action of the
actor, even down to the quantum scale. And so, _without privacy, there is no
sovereignty.  _

While privacy can be important for preserving relationships amongst
individuals, it’s also important for the relationship between the individual
and the state. Whoever is in power, and mainly, whoever is able to take your
life, liberty or property, is able to define what is (subjectively) nefarious.
If you disagree but don’t have privacy, too bad. If you disagree but do have
privacy, then you can better maintain your life, liberty, and property. A
major point of ensuring privacy around one’s assets, and thereby privacy
around one’s action, is that we protect ourselves from certain dystopian
outcomes, regardless of the current flavor of power. And if 2020 has taught us
anything, it’s how fast society can hurtle towards dystopian outcomes.

Why Zcash is the Community to Bring Us Privacy

The crypto-community most capable of bringing privacy to the masses is Zcash.
The engineers behind the effort have more than 200 combined “cryptography-
years” under their belt, more years of cryptography experience than many
crypto teams have lived. Zooko, the most well-known Zcash community member and
CEO of the Electric Coin Company (ECC), dropped out of college in the early
1990’s to join cryptography-legend David Chaum in a digital money pursuit that
had them narrowly missing a native integration with Netscape in 1994. It’s now
almost 30-years later, and while Zooko’s put on some grey-hairs in the
interim, he and Zcash’s community of moon-mathematicians and crypto-magicians
have the context, talent, and network for what’s at stake here, and thus they
have earned Placeholder’s investment as _the_ privacy team to tackle financial
privacy for the Information Age.

Hot money investors will tell you privacy is all the same, and that privacy is
just one feature that every chain will have. Saying such things may serve
their personal pursuits, but is dangerously misleading for society. When in
the realm of privacy, nothing could be further from the truth. For privacy to
be worthwhile, it needs to be an airtight solution, not one that mostly works.
A privacy solution that “mostly works” is one that doesn’t work at all.
Furthermore, privacy through encryption is a game of cat-and-mouse against the
decrypters. In order for a privacy network to be reliable, one has to have
faith that the talent behind the network will forever stay ahead of the
decrypters curve.

During its short life, Zcash has always been at the frontier of privacy. When
it launched in October 2016, Zcash was the first practical implementation of
Zero-Knowledge Succinct Non-Interactive Arguments of Knowledge (zkSNARKs). In
May 2014 a group of rockstar cryptography professors published a paper on the
[potential of zkSNARKs to be implemented in a bitcoin-like
currency](http://zerocash-project.org/media/pdf/zerocash-
extended-20140518.pdf). To help productize and release this vision into the
real world, they chose Zooko to lead the initial effort, due to his wealth of
practical experience, credibility in the cryptography community (he
corresponded with Satoshi!), and alignment of values.

While Zcash was in part inspired by Bitcoin, the community has never been
content being “Bitcoin but with privacy.” Instead, they have recognized other
core deficiencies in Bitcoin’s design, and worked to create a more sustainable
system. For example, in Bitcoin’s case an organic community of companies have
patched together the employment of enough core developers to keep Bitcoin
moving, but the protocol itself does not pay for anything other than hardware
contributions (miners). Zcash, on the other hand, compensates both hardware
contributions (80% of ZEC supply goes to miners) and software contributions
(20% of supply).

In the software contributions bucket, come the [first-halving in late November
2020](https://www.nicehash.com/countdown/ZEC-halving-2020-11-17-12:00), 7% of
[new ZEC issuance](https://zips.z.cash/zip-1014) will fund the ECC’s efforts,
including its development of zcashd (C++ based protocol implementation), user-
friendly wallets, growth efforts and regulatory relations; 5% will fund Zcash
Foundation’s (ZF) efforts, including their development of zebra (Rust based
protocol implementation); and 8% of newly minted ZEC will be allocated by a
community elected committee that funds grassroots efforts that aim to fill the
gap between the ECC and ZF.

Zcash has taken heat over the years for its governance innovations, mainly due
to the waning shadow of Bitcoin Maximalist propaganda. But in our experience
[working with over 20 networks](https://www.placeholder.vc/) and their
cryptoeconomic + governance experiments, few teams take the governance of
their network more seriously than Zcash. That’s because Zcash understands the
gravity of providing sovereign financial privacy to all of Earth’s citizens.
Consider comments like [the
below](https://forum.zcashcommunity.com/t/decentralizing-the-dev-fee/35252/90)
from ECC’s Head of Growth, Josh Swihart:

>  _Failing isn’t an option for us._ _Hundreds of millions to potentially
> billions of dollars are at stake._ _People’s privacy (and all that it means
> to those people) is at stake._ _The future of our collective access to
> private, uncensorable, digital cash is at stake._
>
>  _What’s the cost to build and support this form of privacy-preserving
> global money? Based on all the data I have, the cost is much greater than
> what ECC is spending. We can tell you what we think is a reasonable amount
> for us to do our part, but this is really up to you and whether you believe
> it’s worth it. For me personally, it consumes almost every waking moment of
> my life. This cause is worthy._

Meanwhile, efforts like [Crypto in Context](https://electriccoin.co/crypto-in-
context/) demonstrate the Zcash community’s desire and action to interface
with underserved communities, working to help their financial literacy, as
well as to better understand what these communities need for crypto to become
a material reality that moves the needle for them.

It’s not just the engineering chops that draw us to Zcash; it’s the heart and
commitment to the societal cause, with a multi-decadal plan to succeed.
Because in this case, failing to provide all of us privacy and economic
freedom isn’t an option. Don’t believe us? Join a Zcash community call or hop
into the [forum](https://forum.zcashcommunity.com/) today.

Tags [Chris](/blog/tag/Chris)

[<- Stop Burning Tokens – Buyback and Make Instead](/blog/2020/9/17/stop-
burning-tokens-buyback-and-make-instead)[Balancer Thesis
->](/blog/2020/7/20/balancer-thesis)

[ ](https://twitter.com/placeholdervc)

## Subscribe

Sign up with your email address to receive news and updates.

First Name

Last Name

Email Address

Sign Up

We respect your privacy.

Thank you!

