[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo.svg) ](/)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/ "Ascent")
  * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/news/)
  * [Diffusion Live](https://diffusion.events/)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/themes/ov/assets/images/close.svg)

  * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [DeFi Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/defi-base-camp)
    * [Filecoin Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/filecoin-base-camp/)
    * [Hedera Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/hedera-base-camp)
    * [Polkadot Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polkadot-base-camp)
    * [Polygon Base Camp](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/polygon-base-camp)
  * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
  * [News & Reports](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/ "Intelligence")
    * [Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Newsletter Signup](https://outlierventures.io/sign-up/ "Sign Up")
    * [Special Reports](https://outlierventures.io/reports/ "Reports")
    * [Research Articles](/research/ "Research")
    * [Company News](/news/ "News")
    * [Metaverse Podcast](/podcast-overview/ "Podcasts")
  * [About Us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Our Portfolio](/portfolio/ "Portfolio")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [OV Careers](https://outlierventures.io/careers/)
    * [Portfolio Jobs](https://jobs.outlierventures.io/jobs)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

# ‘P-DIDI’ (Project DID Initiative): An RFP for a tokenised SSI network based
on the Sovrin architecture

[research](https://outlierventures.io/research/)

‘P-DIDI’ (Project DID Initiative): An RFP for a tokenised SSI network based on
the Sovrin architecture

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Jamie-Burke-Hi-
Res-150x150.png)

September 2020

Posted by

Jamie Burke

CEO and Founder

 ...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/jamie-burke/)

**Evernym, the commercial entity behind DID (Decentralised Identifier)
technology and the Sovrin core code base, donated the protocol IP (now:
Hyperledger Indy) and both created and empowered the independent Sovrin
Foundation to provide governance for the Sovrin Network in 2016 as a public
good.**

**Since then, private capital was raised to build and launch a Sovrin Token
(The Sovrin Token Initiative: STI), and the code to launch a tokenized
instance of the Sovrin network was written and has been available on Sovrin
Mainnet since late 2018. However The Sovrin Foundation has been unable to
secure the vote from its stewards to mint the token and roll out the network
despite best efforts. Regulatory and community constraints make it difficult
for the Sovrin Foundation to carry forward with its leadership role of the
STI.**

**In response, Evernym, Outlier Ventures (the primary advisor) and the wider
STI community are looking for a new independent founder team to assume
leadership of the initiative, deliver the token to investors, its adoption, as
well as drive the future technical roadmap, economics and node network.**

**To apply and to find out more:<https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/>**

Posted by Jamie Burke - September 2020

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Jamie-Burke-Hi-
Res-150x150.png)

September 2020

Posted by

Jamie Burke

CEO and Founder

 ...[read more](https://outlierventures.io/team/jamie-burke/)

## Related Posts

[ ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralised-metaverse-
thumbnail-800x600.jpg)](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/) [The Illusion of a Decentralized
Metaverse](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-illusion-of-a-
decentralized-metaverse/)

May 2022  
Karim Halabi

[ ![DAO Governance Article](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2022/04/DAO-
Thumb.png)](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/) [Governance in the Age of the DAO: Tooling and
Frameworks](https://outlierventures.io/research/governance-in-the-age-of-the-
dao-tooling-and-frameworks/)

April 2022  
Martin Saps

As such we propose a fork of the Sovrin Mainnet and that a new (non US) entity
be constituted by a new founder team, which is to be recruited from the
community. This team will be run through the Outlier Ventures Web 3
[‘Basecamp’](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/) accelerator program to
help them rapidly get to market, issue a token and create a new steward base
(as node operators in a tokenized system).

This new entity would honour SAFT investors token rights to recognise their
capital contribution into the technology and would seek the exclusive rights
to be the sole Sovrin Token, engaging with the Sovrin Foundation proper via a
dedicated working group to explore future ongoing interoperability and steward
adoption.

Whilst this team would inherit the code and obligations to distribute the
tokens to investors and other stakeholders such as long term advisors, Sovrin,
and Evernym , once appointed they would have freedom to drive future decisions
with engagement and support of the STI community via a dedicated governance
entity. The team will have the support of key Evernym and Sovrin leadership,
including Evernym co founder Jason Law.

###

### **Background**

  * Following a recent vote, the Sovrin network and mainnet can not issue a token on mainnet due to a combination of:
  *     * US regulatory considerations after several million spent on legal fees
    * A majority of Stewards share increasing concerns, as largely US entities, about liabilities arising from a token and developments with Facebook Libra
    * The Linux foundation's objections to taking oversight of a tokenized network
  * We at Outlier Ventures, a Steward in the Sovrin network, and Evernym still believe the world needs a secure and sufficiently decentralised instance of Self Sovereign Identity
  * For that to exist we believe the best approach is still a tokenized instance of Sovrin mainnet
  * Therefore a new pathway needs to be found between the community, Evernym and The Sovrin Foundation to launch a network outside of the US that satisfies SAFT investors and creates a viable and sustainable tokenized SSI network 
  * Ideally this would retain a direct relationship with the Sovrin Foundation and provide for a pathway to make it available to Sovrin Stewards, through interoperability 

### **Why SSI needs a token**

**1\. Paying for credentials**

  * FIAT is insufficiently fast, affordable and divisible for the micropayments required for the credentialing outlined in the Sovrin white and yellow-papers.
  * Equally, cryptographically secure, on-chain, proof of payment is not otherwise possible on the Sovrin mainnet.

**2\. Network incentives**

  * The Sovrin mainnet has no direct incentive to run a node other than the good will of Stewards and their requirement for a functioning network to exist.
  * Tokens allow block rewards for network maintainers, motivating node operators to keep the network live. 
  * FIAT is again insufficiently affordable, divisible and fast enough to be used for block rewards, but the token native as designed is fit for purpose.

**3\. SSI must be universal, affordable and unpermissioned**

  *     * SSI should be available to all. 
    * The current Sovrin mainnet demands that its users have a bank account to participate which immediately makes it inaccessible to the world’s 69% ‘unbanked’. 
    * This makes it in conflict with the ‘identity for all’ narrative and aims championed by the Sovrin Foundation. 
    * A token has no such barriers to entry and maintains the open and unpermissioned promise of SSI.
    * Most importantly this is why any token must be a utility token and not a security which would directly restrict who can use it: e.g. in the US for example only accredited investors based on income and net worth. 

**4\. SSI must have very high privacy standards, including in its economic
layer**

  1.     * Value exchange for verifiable credentials enables commercial use cases. This has always been part of the Sovrin vision.
    * Without a native network token, value exchange is possible, but will compromise on transaction privacy and security. For example, it’s entirely possible for organisation A to sell a Sovrin credential to person B, where person B pays with an Ethereum transaction. However 1) the Ethereum transaction will expose B’s transaction history (privacy) and 2) the transaction is not atomic (security)
    * Other SSI solutions competing with Sovrin, that already have a native network token or another form of economic layer, could allow for secure value exchange, but generally don’t have the high privacy standards that Sovrin does.

### **Competitive landscape**

Technology especially around the DID standard moves quickly. To inform our
recommendation that, aside from any direct economic interest we at Outlier may
have in P-DIDI coming into fruition, that we are first and foremost confident
the technical approach taken by Sovrin is still relevant given any new
insights so we carried out a high-level analysis of the SSI Stack and market
**(See section at end of document)**

Equally, at Outlier Ventures we volunteered as a Steward to test the new token
functionality on the live networks and we found them to be robust and highly
functional.

In summary, we do continue to strongly advocate for the Sovrin approach but
believe there is now the opportunity, outside of the Sovrin Foundation, to
improve on it further primarily from a governance perspective to make it a
better fit with the most likely early adopter and Web 3 community, which was
not something the Sovrin Foundation actively sought to do.

That said we believe for expediency we work within the technical constraints
of Sovrin design in order to not require further time or money leading from
new development work. We believe this is especially important in the current
COVID environment and its debates around trace and tracking and user privacy.
This represents a **major missed opportunity to take SSI mainstream** if
P-DIDI is not realised now

### **Summary of conceptual framework**

  * In place of **Sovrin Stewards** the tokenised network will instead be run by a wider group of permissioned node operators, made up from across the community but that might include existing sovrin stewards
  * For expediency, we propose this is bootstrapped by early **Sovrin SAFT participants** in combination with businesses that do or would like to use the current Sovrin network and that want the added benefit of a token. This later group would be recruited from across the Web 3 community (that may or may not already be formally engaged with the Sovrin Foundation)
  * We believe whilst this loses the benefit of many of the large corporations within the Sovrin Network as operators and users (for now) it appeals to an entirely new part of the Web 3 early adopter community of startups, that had previously rejected Sovrin governance as too US and too corporate
  * Equally, this approach demonstrates the decentralised nature to the ‘Sovrin Token Initiative’ to regulators and a pathway to actual utilisation of the network which may help the Sovrin Foundation make its **future case to the SEC**
  * This network **may or may not be the official Sovrin network** , as these discussions would still need to take place, but it will benefit from the technology it has built with SAFT funds. 
  * If it is granted permission to use the Sovrin brand and be formally recognised as **‘the official Sovrin Token’** , this might remove the possibility of some liability of the foundation not delivering a token at all and should therefore be in everyone’s interest for it to be recognised as such.
  * Because the new P-DIDI network would be based on the same code base and stood up within the principles of the **Sovrin Trust Framework** it would be both compatible technically and philosophically and therefore could formally exist within a **‘network of networks’** conceptual framework being promoted with the Sovrin Foundation
  * Assuming code-bases do not diverge too much over time, it would allow for the possibility of direct interoperability with any other network as ‘ _The_ Sovrin token’ 
  * We recommend that given the code is already 100% finished for some time and has been fully open sourced, an instance of the network could be set up, launched and overseen by this new network of volunteer community node operators themselves without any involvement from the Sovrin Foundation (Technical requirements and details follow below).

### **Economics**

  * The idea would continue to be a fixed supply of tokens minted on a new network, as previously outlined in the **Sovrin Yellow Paper** , distributed over a period of vesting (12 months), pro-rata to mirror SAFT participation (based on regulatory considerations detailed later), to those **who make their wallets available** AND **setup and run a P-DIDI node** **(and maintain appropriate levels of uptime)** , as well as to any advisors to the project
  * The allocation earmarked for the Sovrin Foundation would instead be allocated to a **new network governance body, operated via a DAO smart contract** (discussed later), with a proportion directly used at launched to incentivise DApps and key Web 3 development partners to also run nodes and formally participate in governance of the network through the DAO
  * Future monetary and fiscal policy such as setting the transaction fees for the network and block rewards would be determined by the DAO after its **successful*** formation.

*******successful being a minimum criteria of participation**

### **Regulatory Considerations**

  * Any new network would have to be stood up outside the US and with limited liability to its participants through the formation of a **non-profit foundation.**
  * The token would need to be minted and distributed, and the network itself governed, in a sufficiently decentralised way from day one, with no single controller. 
  * The **network must preclude any participants (people or institutions) that reside in the US from its operation** (this likely may include Evernym themselves) including future receipt of tokens at the point of distribution.
  * To be explicit this means all US Sovrin SAFT participants (estimated at circa. 15%) would need to be excluded entirely from the network and would not receive any future tokens. It may however be prudent to lock up an equivalent proportion of supply in a smart contract should they be able to receive them at some point in the future. 
  * Equally, there would be no direct relationship between the SAFT round and the new network, nor do its tokens represent the delivery of value under the terms of any SAFT agreement’s terms. 
  * However we believe it helpful, and would advocate for, if those in receipt of the new P-DIDI Token formally renounce their claim under any SAFT agreements to the overall success of the overall project. This however, would be at the discretion to the individual parties involved.
  * Whilst there are several precedents out of the US, most notably the Enigma / Secret Network initiative, where there was a one-for-one swap on an official token deemed by the SEC as a security because of how funds were raised using SAFTs, in return for a unofficial utility token, we do not propose this pathway as the most efficient or effective way forward, nor it is a requirement placed on us as a separate and distinct volunteer community network

### **Governance**

  * We would advocate for governance around the minting, distribution of a token and the operations of its network to be **via a DAO such as**[ **Aragon**](https://aragon.org) (Decentralised Autonomous Organisation) structure with a **‘legal wrapper’** to limit the liability of its members to be incorporated in a friendly jurisdiction, such as Switzerland, paid for by the community (discussed later)
  * The DAO would execute the minting and distribution of P-DIDI tokens via vote on the Aragon network and hold an endowment of tokens as a treasury, held in smart contract. 
  * Voting would be conducted on the Aragon network through a separate **governance token** held proportionately one-to-one to the P-DIDI token
  * All major decisions from: future network or governance upgrades, monetary and fiscal policy, transaction fees, block rewards and grants should be made by 51% majority vote, with some extraordinary measures requiring a higher threshold. 
  * Whilst voting would be permissioned, **submissions of proposals for vote should, however, be permissionless** to be as inclusive as possible with the user community
  * Voting on Aragon can be delegated, or abstained from, however for a properly functioning network and to avoid centralisation this should be discouraged and a high-level of participation sought 

### **Network configuration**

We believe there is a solution that uses the current code and token
allocation, albeit redistributing the latter, where the network requires no
real changes at a technical level.

**Network maintainers** **  
**  
In return for tokens network maintainers should be required to actively run a
node on the new network. The token pool would be allocated entirely at network
genesis, with the address controlled by the technical lead for each party who
would run a standard Hyperledger Indy node and connect to the network defined
by the genesis block.

Those actively maintaining a node without failures would then receive their
token share from the pool pro-rata. This distribution itself would be made
over time: say over 12 months, one for every month the node is ‘active’ in the
first year. Following the first year, the DAO should agree further incentives
to continue running..

Whilst enterprises are now cold on the idea of tokenisation startups building
on top of Hyperledger Indy such as Trinsic, Crucible and MetaDigital should be
incentivised to run a node, with an allocation from the token poo.. This would
establish a ‘dapp ecosystem’ fund for the P-DIDI network.

### **Cost** ****

The server infrastructure is possible to run for approximately £50/month.

The cost will not change from the current network implementation, see the
technical requirements below.

### **  
****Technical requirements**

We recommend that the same technical requirements for running a node (becoming
a Steward) remain to ensure the robustness of the network.

For existing Stewards, the process will simply involve connecting their
existing node to a new network and it would be our hope that with time several
may come around to the benefits of switching.

The key requirements are stated below, with the full requirements available
[here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xqKVgI46V0baV6GHpyNomgsoxtWqoExf0gBvwXb7iuM).

  * Dedicated server, not a VPS.
  * Two Network Interface Controllers (NICs).
  * Ubuntu 16.04.
  * 8+ core CPU.
  * 32GB+ RAM.
  * 2TB+ disk (redundant).
  * 100 Mb/s connection speed both down and up across both NICs.

Multiple European stewards have successfully maintained the network with an
excellent quality of service using [OVH’s dedicated server
offering](https://www.ovh.co.uk/dedicated_servers/) with many alternatives
available.

  
**Future work**  
  
We believe an important consideration for the DAO mid to long-term should be
how to enable a ‘network of network’ concept (similar to Cosmos / Polkadot) to
allow a particular group of organisations to stand up their own network,
compatible with DIDI and leveraging the same token, but with their own form of
governance and pricing structure.

This might require a certain threshold of tokens to be purchased ‘in market’
and locked up in return for a new supply of governance tokens to be issued to
them. This will allow for particular industries to feel ownership of their
network, and not force a one size fits all dilemma to new user groups, whilst
allowing for interoperability.

**Conditions**  
  
We believe there are certain conditions to be met in order for any approach to
qualify as a viable pathway, in no particular order below.

We think we should increase the level of reporting to SAFT inventors to weekly
and the wider community every two weeks and commit to a mainnet launch
deadline and these conditions publicly.

  * **Evernym direct support & participation**

  1. Evernym must be able to technically and financially support the setup and launch of any new network
  2. Evernym must be able to contribute towards its ongoing governance 
  3. Evernym must be able to operate a node in the network
  4. Evernym’s core business must utilise the network in its commercial offering
  5. Evernym’s founder and CT Jason Law must, to the best of his ability, formally contribute to the new networks ongoing technical roadmap

  * **Network capitalisation**

  1. The DIDI Foundation must have the majority of token supply (set threshold)
  2. The DIDI Foundation must have enough of a treasury to incentivise the growth of an ecosystem over several years

  * **Sufficient decentralization**

  1. The new network at launch must have over 51% of node operators as users and DID service providers, which a strategy to achieve 75% end of year 1 of its operations
  2. Node operators must govern the network, and be sufficiently incentivised to do so on an ongoing basis through mining rewards

  * **The network should be ‘The Sovrin Token Network’ in more than just name**

  1. The DIDI Foundation should own the exclusive rights to being ‘The Sovrin Token’, in perpetuity
  2. The Sovrin Foundation nor its creditors would be able to issue another tokenized instance of their network, and / or by the same name at any point in the future 
  3. The Sovrin Foundation should receive a (reasonable) fixed percentage of token supply under a licensing agreement in return. This should be paid over a period of 3 years in monthly installments based on key criteria:
    1. The Sovrin Foundation and its mainnet remain operational
    2. There is a formal working group between The Sovrin Foundation and the DIDI Foundation to explore compatibility and interoperability inc. collaboration around Layer 2 solutions, to make the token network optionally accessible to all Sovrin Stewards
    3. The Sovrin Foundation can stay solvent and sufficiently restructure its debt obligation (in particular with Perkins Cowee) to become long-term viable
  4. Perkins Coie is a creditor only not legal counsel 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



## Research:



### **SSI Competitive Landscape Q2 2020**

### **Questions for any SSI solution**

  * Who maintains the network, with which incentives?
  * How is the network governed?
  * Can the solution / network be used in an unpermissioned way?
  * How does the solution prevent spam?
  * Can keys be revoked? How?
  * Can credentials be revoked? How?
  * Is the code open source? Which parts?
  * Can end users backup and recover their keys? How?
  * Can the network scale to 100s of millions of users? How?

### **Insights**

There are three main categories of solutions:

  1. DID-method based
  2. Ethereum-based ERC725 or ERC808
  3. Entirely different approach (not many)

A minority are currently using the mainnets, e.g. Sovrin mainnet, Ethereum
mainnet

Tokenised <> untokenised

Which ones vertically integrated vs general purpose?



### [**Kiva**](https://www.kiva.org/protocol)

Kiva is based on the DID and credentials model using Hyperledger Indy as the
underlying blockchain layer. It relies on a credential-based identity system,
wherein the basic identifier is a public/private key pair, to which multiple
claims and attestations can be associated. In the Kiva protocol, issuers of
verifiable credentials are called “trust anchors” who have real world
reputations at stake. The Kiva identity protocol is currently designed as a
private permissioned system, whereby all trust anchors must be approved by
Kiva and/or the Sierra Leone government in order to issue credentials, sign
attestations, and read identity claims. In the future, trust anchors may be
broadened to include NGOs, technology companies such as Facebook and Google,
and other organizations that can provide information relevant to a particular
identity.

### [**World Food Programme Building
Blocks**](https://innovation.wfp.org/project/building-blocks)

A public Ethereum mainnet-based Cash-Based Intervention (CBI) project with a
verifiable-credentials-like model. Building Blocks was born in January 2017
with a 100-person Proof-of-Concept (PoC) in Pakistan's Umerkot village. In May
2017, Building Blocks initiated a large-scale pilot with 10,000 Syrian
refugees in Jordan, though a private PoA deployment of Ethereum was used. For
the PoC, beneficiary accounts were created on the blockchain and loaded with
tokens representing cash or food and each beneficiary was assigned a random
identifier between 1 and 100, which was linked to their public key one-to-one.
To redeem their entitlements, beneficiaries would present themselves at cash
or food merchants and provide their random identifier. The merchant would then
insert the beneficiary's identifier along with the redemption amount into a
web application. The web application would send the request to Building Blocks
which would then send a One-Time Password (OTP) to the beneficiary's feature
phone via SMS as the authentication mechanism. The beneficiary would then
provide the OTP to the merchant who would insert it into the web application
and send it to Building Blocks. If the OTP was valid, Building Blocks would
check the requested redemption amount against the available blockchain
entitlements and, if sufficient, trigger the beneficiary private key held in
custody to record a transaction and send a confirmation back to the merchant.
Upon seeing the confirmation, the merchant would distribute the requested
quantity of cash or food to the beneficiary. WFP would then, based on the
Building Blocks record, determine the amount owed to each merchant and settle
with them directly.

### [**Cordentity**](https://www.corda.net/blog/meet-cordentity/)

SSI with a standard DID method implementation and verifiable credentials on
Corda. Accepted as a Hyperledger labs project.

### [**ERC725 & ERC735**](https://erc725alliance.org/)

SSI standards for Ethereum. Used by Status, Polymath, Origin, KORD, Public
Market, Propy, Dream, Dock, Verity, Crypto KABN, Cleargraph, Fractal
Blockchain, Abacus, Neufund, Tenzorum, **Zinc** , EDDITS, Stacktical, Rate3,
Wiji, Hydro, Credit Hydra, BlockBase, Zerion, Ludian Ventures, Talao and
iExec. ERC735 is the verifiable claims portion.

### [**Microsoft Decentralised
Identity**](https://didproject.azurewebsites.net/docs/ion-sidetree.html)

Microsoft SSI is comprised of Sidetree and an SSI overlay for Bitcoin called
the Identity Overlay Network (ION). It provides Verifiable Credentials on
Azure. Sidetree is a blockchain-agnostic layer 2 protocol that was designed to
support a globally scalable, immutable append-only log with no central
provider or authorities to be censorship and tamper resistant. This is
accomplished by leveraging decentralized ledger technology to support a
distributed public key infrastructure (dPKI). This dPKI is used to anchor
public keys to validate ownership of a DID. There are three major components
to a Sidetree network: a decentralized ledger system, Sidetree nodes and the
Content Addressable Store (CAS - IPFS).

### [**uPort, ERC780 & ERC1056**](https://www.uport.me/)

Ethereum-based identity platform focused on account management and storage of
user data on IPFS. Ethereum-native verifiable claims standard ERC780 refers to
on-chain claims and ERC1056 is another Ethereum DID standard.

### [**Verified Organisation Network, formerly TheOrgBook**](https://vonx.io/)

The Province of British Columbia is currently collaborating with the Province
of Ontario and the Canadian Federal Government to provide verified digital
claims about businesses. The Verified Organization Network is an initiative by
the government of British Columbia to create a trusted network of
organizational data. It allows organizations to claim credentials that are
part of their own digital identity, using a component called TheOrgBook that
lists entities with their associated public verifiable claims. In this project
businesses and their representatives are given access to streamlined
government services and digital transactions in the broader economy. Areas of
application could be incorporation of a new business, establishing a business
licence and associated permits, as well as opening bank accounts.

### [**TrustNet**](http://trustnet.fi)

TrustNet is a heavily industry-networked research project that focuses on
developing a blockchain-based distributed environment for personal data
management following the MyData principles. Such an environment is the
cornerstone for functional personal data markets as it allows individuals to
control the flow of their personal data across companies and industries and
creates the foundational building blocks for creating new personal data-
centric services.

### [**Alastria**](https://alastria.io/en/)

Alastria is a non-profit consortium building a national blockchain ecosystem
for Spain. The security and veracity of information will be ensured through
the identification of natural and legal persons, while at the same time
allowing citizens to have control over their personal information in a
transparent way following the guidelines set by the European Union.

### [**Illinois blockchain initiative**](https://illinoisblockchain.tech/)

The Illinois Blockchain Initiative is partnering with **Evernym** to develop a
birth registry pilot, where self-sovereign identities are created, and
government agencies issue "verifiable claims" for birth registration
attributes such as legal name, date of birth, sex or blood type.

### [**Blockchain on the Move**](https://stories.jolocom.com/blockchain-on-
the-move-2722b467e31e)

As a cooperation project between the city of Antwerp, the Flemish Information
Agency, Digipolis and the Flemish ICT organization (V-ICT-OR), the project
Blockchain on the Move is a pilot project on SSI and its application on the
municipal level. It explores the potential of SSI for e-Government use cases
and State-issued credentials for private sector B2B and B2C use cases.



### [**Zug ID (UPort and ti &m)**](https://medium.com/uport/zug-id-exploring-
the-first-publicly-verified-blockchain-identity-38bd0ee3702)

As a first pilot project in Switzerland, the city of Zug is currently piloting
a SSI solution. The local administration is cooperating with the IT consulting
company ti&m, as well as UPort to provide a basic infrastructure for their
citizens to attest their identity. With the SSI implemented in Zug, users can
now pay their parking fees, register for elections or perform online sign on
for e-government services. The benefits range for the city of Zug are low
infrastructure requirements, decreased security risks, cost effectiveness,
GDPR compliance and scalability.

### [**Danube Tech**](https://danubetech.com/)

In a SSI proof-of-concept during the first half of 2018, 3 banks, an insurance
company, the Austrian Post, and an institution representing notaries
cooperated to implement a range of use cases based on DIDs, Verifiable
Credentials, **Sovrin** , and the XDI protocol. The use cases included:
digital ID onboarding for existing clients, SSI for new clients, sharing of
KYC data between organizations, dynamic data verification (change-of-address),
secure communication (e-mail with ID confirmation), change of identity service
providers, and personal ID verification in a peer-to-peer marketplace.

### [**Validated ID**](https://www.validatedid.com/)

Barcelona-based Validated ID provides digital identity solutions that cater to
individuals and businesses working in the remote and eCommerce spaces. We
often don’t _know_ for certain that we are dealing with the _real_ somebody
when it comes to digital interactions, but Validated ID hopes to remove much
of the certainty from virtual dealings. Paperless legal support and identity
authentication are among two of Validated ID’s most critical offerings. Their
ViDSigner is a comprehensive electronic signature service that allows users to
issue legally-honored signatures in several ways – through a swipeable card,
biometric signature, automated stamp, etc. The service is predicated on
simplicity, legality, cost-effectiveness, and flexibility – the same features
that are required in the remote economy.

### [**Keyp**](https://keyp.io/)

Keyp is looking to take on the digital identity paradigm by offering an open
digital identity ecosystem – solutions, partners, etc. – to all of Europe. The
broad goal: to create an environment where the cutting-edge in identity
protection is made readily available to businesses willing to pay for it. Some
of its most-used offerings are intended for hiring and onboarding processes.
Their Identity Framework brings onboarding and logins under a single umbrella,
making these processes highly-customizable and secure. The Keyp Identity
Terminal allows users to design customer access workflows, while the Keyp
Wallet lets users establish a decentralized identity for individual control
over data. While this may seem like a lot for a single platform, know that it
_is_ an ambitious project, but also one with serious promise.

### [**NewBanking**](https://www.newbanking.com)

NewBanking is looking to allow users to prove their identities more easily
across the web without sacrificing control over sensitive data. This is
particularly useful in the financial sector, where FinTech has created an
atmosphere where digital transactions are the norm, not the exception. Users
choose precisely which information they want to input into their digital ID,
as well as who they choose to share it with. Beyond this, NewBanking wants to
alleviate other worries – how is my data being used? Who is it being sold to?
Is my personal information ripe for hackers? Etc. In the age of digital
banking and general information sharing over poorly-secured portals, such a
service will serve a widespread need.

### [**Metadium**](https://www.metadium.com/)

Metadium is a ‘next-generation identity protocol’ helping users manage,
protect, and utilize their online identity. Created with blockchain-
capability, the Meta ID offers a single source of users’ personal information
securely stored using blockchain protections. The self-sovereign identity is
also intended to be usable with off-chain and inter-blockchain services so
that it has real usefulness in the real digital world. Though the Meta ID can
store a plethora of data, users decide what to share and what to keep hidden
on a case-by-case basis, lending a measure of versatility to the digital
identity solution.

### [**THEKEY**](https://www.thekey.vip/)

THEKEY is an identity verification tool powered by the blockchain. It
incorporates Blockchain-based dynamic multi-dimension identification (BDMI,
for short) to help authenticate that somebody is who they are claiming to be.
This level of authentication is in lockstep with what government agencies
require. Advantages of this level of security and identity management
technology, THEKEY team states, is lower cost, more reliable results, and
better user experience.

### [**Trusti**](https://trusti.com/)

Trusti is an Israel-based, blockchain-enabled platform providing
identification technology for cross-chain transactions. The platform also
offers services that are critical to identity management; namely, compliance,
fraud detection, and identity authentication. Users can do a number of things
on the Trusti network – create an accredited crypto wallet, send and receive
funds, transact using security tokens, and more. Importantly, they can do all
of this on a platform that operates within the confines of the law and
regulators’ expectations.

### [**Fractal**](https://www.trustfractal.com/)

Fractal is a Berlin-based company seeking to help create a future where the
business world governs itself. They want to create a decentralized, shared
economy in which communities are self-governed and accountability is not
created through the threat of punishment from a single regulatory body, but
through well-defined community standards regarding fairness and ethicacy.
They’ll do this by automating critical mechanisms using blockchain technology.
From know-your-client (KYC) and anti-money laundering (AML) processes to data
protection, security, and identity management, Fractal is taking a multi-
pronged approach to securing the shared economy of tomorrow so that regulators
don’t have to.

### [**Nuggets**](https://nuggets.life/)

Nuggets is a blockchain-powered platform that grants its users a single
biometric source to handle their logins, payment, and identity verification
needs. The London-based startup encourages users to create a ‘personal cloud’
on which their personal data is securely stored; according to Nuggets, not
even their team can access this data. From there, users decide if, how, and
when they pass along that data to third parties. For those comfortable with
biometric access, Nuggets could significantly reduce the sheer number of
devices where your information is vulnerably stored. With no passwords or
login credentials, you better hope that your device doesn’t forget what your
fingerprint looks like.

### [**AGEify**](https://age-ify.com/)

AGEify is a Belgian online age-verification platform with backing from the
European Union. How many sites ask you to verify your age? Countless. And,
when they do, you simply enter an arbitrary date that you know will allow you
to stroll past the age wall. Whether the barrier to entry is 18 or 21, all it
takes is the average seven year old to dupe this system. With AGEify, sites
who are serious about catering only to an age-appropriate audience can now put
stronger measures in place. By piggybacking off of affiliate institutions –
banks, telecom companies, etc. – that already have access to verified age
records, AGEify is able to enact more stringent protections. Users simply
enter a PIN or conduct a finger scan and voila, they are either let into the
naughty website or told ‘sorry, not just yet’. And, all data is secured via
blockchain systems.

### [**MADANA**](https://www.madana.io/)

MADANA – not to be mistaken with the Brit pop singer – is a German platform
conducting data analysis with an assist from blockchain technology. Broadly,
MADANA allows users to maintain control over their data while also offering
ways for users to anonymously make money off of their personal details and
habits. The platform was created to improve upon the data marketing by
allowing data miners and marketers to continue deriving value without
violating the average user or web browser’s privacy. Built on the Lisk
blockchain, the MADANA platform will compensate users who share their data
with the PAX token, handed out automatically using smart contracts. By
compensating users when they share and making them aware of the conditions in
which their data is being acquired, MADANA provides a much more appealing
proposition than most legacy identity management platforms.

### [**Peer Mountain**](https://www.peermountain.com/token-sale/)

Peer Mountain is an enterprise blockchain built as a mobile-first distributed
ID-management network. All members of the network, whether they’re businesses
or individuals, own and control their data, and can use it to several ends.
First, members’ identities are consolidated in a single source – the Peer
Mountain mobile application. Users can then share their self-sovereign, Peer
Mountain-enabled identity how they please without worrying that data is being
taken from them without consent. Business can insulate their form-reliant
processes from breach through PM’s built-in blockchain protections, and
identity verifiers can earn Peer Mountain Token (PMTN) for validating
credentials that go into the platform.

### [**Object Tech**](https://www.objecttechgroup.com/)

Object Tech is using blockchain-powered systems of sovereign identity to help
individual secure digital visas. The EU-supported Object Tech team envisions a
future in which digital passports allow travelers to simply walk off of their
plane or train directly into a cab or rental car without having to stop to
verify that they have traveled legally. The digital identity ‘follows’ users
as they travel, creating a verifiable ledger that serves as proof – no longer
will the question ‘have you traveled out of the country recently’ be necessary
at the customs gate. Object Tech maintains that their system is compliant with
the highest of privacy and security standards, and also points out that its
vision falls in line with the smart cities and communities of the future.

### [**Dominode**](https://www.dominode.com/)

Dominode is a company based out of Florida developing digital identity
solutions using blockchain, smart contracts, and crypto technologies. It is
specifically focused on creating better identity oversight in regulated
industries. For job candidates Dominode is helping candidates prove their
identities and credentials to prospective employers. For regulators, the
platform is working to create a more efficient system for managing licensing
and certifications. On an individual level, their Professional Identity
Solution helps secure authenticated data in a shareable way, giving the owner
control over how and when the data is shared. On a more macro level, Dominode
hopes to help businesses unlock a secure, global business network where
qualifications are verified, and trust is ever-present.

### [**Hu-manity**](https://hu-manity.co/)

Hu-manity is a blockchain-powered startup with a grand vision to establish
decentralized human rights and corollary sovereign laws on the blockchain. The
goal is to cater our 30 human rights to the problems that remained hidden or
unforseen when those rights were first established, and to do this with the
help of technologies that, in some cases, may present human rights issues. The
first target is our personal data; Hu-manity wants to protect our sensitive
intel from poaching and illicit propagation. Whether it is geospatial data,
spending habits, or medical history, the Hu-manity mission is to establish
rights around ownership of that data in a similar way to how property rights
are established. Establishing these rights will be possible through
‘decentralized democracy’ by which a community can come to agreement on a
standard regardless of where they are geographically located.

### [**globaliD**](https://globalid.net/)

globaliD is a blockchain-powered tool that lets users establish, own and
utilize their digital identity. The encrypted globaliD platform allows users
to built their digital reputation and deploy it in a number of ways. Users can
input their attested government ID, social profile, and financial status based
from verified documents, then use the platform to deploy necessary information
without ever giving up true ownership of the data. With attestations –
essentially endorsements – from third parties that can verify your information
is valid, your phone becomes your universal identifier – better not lose it.

### [**Hub**](https://www.hubtoken.org/)

Hub is a blockchain-based trust protocol that aims to make user reputations
deployable across the web. In the age of free-wheeling internet opinions spat
out at no cost to the speaker’s reputation, Hub wants to bring accountability
back to the digital world. By decentralizing reputation data using the
blockchain, the idea is to establish greater value for users whose opinions
warrant a greater level of trust. This will allow those users to seek out
greater economic opportunities, gain greater interest in their
products/services, and reap the other benefits that come from a reputation for
trustworthiness. This is the idea behind Hub: use blockchain technology to
assign rankings of trustworthiness, then make those ratings deployable and
useful across the many spheres of the internet.

### [**Civic**](https://www.civic.com/)

Palo Alto-based Civic is a blockchain-enabled ecosystem equipped with tools
for individual users and businesses to maintain power over their digital
identities. Civic is the launching pad for those who want to access outside
sites and apps, but are unsure that their identity will be protected when they
do. By using the Civic platform as a buffer, users can access untrusted
locations on the web without the need for a login and password. Third-party
keys are generated to serve as a barrier between Civic and a user’s keys while
still verifying that the user is who they claim to be. All identity
information entered on Civic is completely encrypted; so, despite using the
platform to login to all sorts of sites, the information used remains private
and insulated from outside threats.

### [**Vetty**](https://vetty.co/)

Vetty, using deep learning and blockchain technology, is helping users conduct
background checks with more certainty. The identity and background
verification platform helps companies and individuals make more informed
hiring decisions by dispatching their bots to ensure information is complete
and legitimate. This saves time for both applications and businesses, as the
database serves as an evolving roster of potential candidates whose
credentials and potential red flags can be quickly identified and assessed.
Candidates can check on the status of their background check at any time, too,
minimizing the queasiness that comes with the uncertainty of the hiring
process.

### [**1Kosmos – BlockID**](https://onekosmos.com/)

1Kosmos is the outfit behind BlockID, their identity management platform
powered by blockchain technology. The platform is a move away from the
physical, legacy copies of identification that can be easily duplicated,
manipulated, and used as tools of identity theft. BlockID eschews these old
ways in favor of a secure locker for one’s digital identifiers stored on their
mobile device. All it takes to activate one’s BlockID is capturing a picture
of one’s face, driver’s license, and passport and then recording a voice
sample and fingerprint. With this, your information is authenticated and
encrypted. If your IDs are lost or stolen, this can be reported on the app. If
your phone breaks, 1Kosmos has a decentralized backup of your information.

### [**V-ID**](https://www.v-id.org/)

V-ID is a validation service that uses blockchain technology to reduce
instances of document fraud. The V-ID protocols can be integrated into
existing platforms and systems, imparting blockchain verification technology
into a paying customer’s existing operations. V-ID has several unique use
cases. From verifying the legitimacy of a diploma, to serving as a legal
notary service, confirming the authenticity of digital security footage,
photos, research results, or audit trails and beyond, V-ID has a wide range of
applications across industry lines.

### [**Velix.ID**](https://www.velix.id/)

Velix.ID, like many services, is looking to improve the identity verification
process by using blockchain technology and a novel approach. It has all the
markings of a blockchain-enabled ID verification platform: it is
decentralized, each user is assigned a unique, encrypted digital ID, all
transactions involving data stored on the platform must have user consent, and
the user controls their data at all times. The other benefits of the Velix.ID
platform are the efficiency and cost savings that come with blockchain-enabled
automation. Smart contracts, zero-knowledge proofs, and the Stellar Consensus
Protocol (SCP) all go into the building of the ecosystem, which is ‘universal,
obscure, transparent, decentralized, time-efficient, and cost-efficient.’

### [**DIW**](https://diwtoken.com/)

DIW is a decentralized identification infrastructure that allows users to
securely access a number of dApps without compromising their identity or data.
Users can store identifying information and documents, passwords, banking
information, wills, and other digital data in the DIW ecosystem. There, it
will be encrypted and stored decentrally as a digital locker for the most
important information we can possibly have. The platform does more than just
store identifying documents, though. Once their information is verified, users
can accept and send payments in both fiat and crypto. DIW is also working on a
global directory which will help users list their services to expand their
economic and commercial reach.

### [**Blockchain Helix**](https://blockchain-helix.com/)

Blockchain Helix is aiming to become the ‘DNA of digital identity’ by reducing
the cost and improving the quality of digital KYC processes. With Blockchain
Helix, accredited institutions can securely share KYC data among themselves,
reducing the time and cost associated with client authentication. Two banks
exchanging KYC data is an example of the Blockchain Helix Trust Provider
Network in action. The Network is designed to extend secure sharing of
authenticated data to larger networks, streamlining processes and decreasing
costs in the process. Importantly, BH is compliant with regulations and backed
by the power of the EU.

### [**Kimlic**](https://www.kimlic.com/)

Estonian startup Kimlic is a decentralized identity validation ecosystem
powered by the Quorum blockchain and available via Google Play. Their
password-less identification processes are enabled by blockchain tech, and
allow companies to easily, securely transfer KYC data for more efficient
processes. For users, sharing their identification information securely with
companies through the Kimlic app can result in financial rewards in the for of
the KIM Token. Their decentralized storage ensures that identity data and
documents are rendered easily-hackable on some centralized data; instead, all
information is transferred directly from a user’s mobile device to a business,
with no vulnerable stoppages along the way.

### [**Persona**](https://www.persona.im/)

Persona is a zero-knowledge identity management system built on the
blockchain. It was built this way, because, according to the Persona team
“personal details are meant to remain private”. The Romania-based platform
maintains this privacy deploying their blockchain protocol to let users prove
their identity without actually sharing any data with third parties. Persona
embraces community as a form of verification. Once a user has their identity
confirmed on the Persona network, they can then act as a validator of other
users’ identities. In the network, it takes 16 peoples’ endorsements to reach
90% validation; the other 10% must come from a financial transaction to
confirm via a financial institution that you are who you say you are.

### [**VerTrius**](https://vertrius.com/)

VerTrius is a Washington, D.C.-based startup that is a developer of SaaS
technologies, some of which fall into the blockchain-facilitated
identification management realm. Their digital ID stamp technology is a
central aspect in all of their verification services. It is used to verify
content security, traceability, management, and access control no matter where
it is stored or displayed on the web. The VerTrius digital ledger takes the
authentication process further by generating decentralized, authenticated
records of communications, transactions, content location, and more.

### [**NuID**](https://www.nuid.io/)

NuID is a startup pushing forward the trustless authentication and trusted
identity movements. Through the use of zero-knowledge cryptography and
distributed ledger technology, the NuID platform is helping to make identity
authentication databases secure and portable. By streamlining multi-step
authentication processes, NuID is upping the ante in terms of ease of login.
The passwordless nature of the database helps reduce cases of fraudulent
accounts hacks, and the decentralized ledger lets users be more aware of how
their data is being shared – this is aided by the fact that securing that data
requires permission from the users themself.

### [**KABN**](https://kabn.network/)

KABN is a suite of financial services that begins with identity security built
on the blockchain. The platform arose out of a growing need for greater
regulatory compliance with initial coin offerings (ICOs). The end-to-end suite
of services includes a patent-pending B2B2C infrastructure that will let
clients and consumers cut chunks of time off of KYC and identity-verification
process through the use of smart contract technology. This is critical in the
ICO climate, where onboarding processes are rapid and, if not done right,
messy. Verifying identity and user data through KABN represents a step towards
making ICOs a more above-board way to raise funds.

### [**lifeID**](https://lifeid.io/)

lifeID is an open-source, tokenized protocol for the establishment of self-
sovereign identity. As the name hints, lifeID is a way for users to
consolidate their most important identifying information in a way that is
secure for, well, life. Open and permissionless, the service is available to
anybody in the world with the technological means to access it. Features will
include biometric authenticators, 100% user control over the privacy of
personal information, a complete lack of passwords, and the ability to use the
lifeID in both digital and physical settings. In time, aspects of the lifeID
network will include physical key cards for real-world deployment,
[VPN](https://techround.co.uk/vpns/)/Cloud access to one’s lifeID, a digital
ID card, and travel-ready iterations of the platform.

### [**Block Systems**](https://apocritaaccess.com/)

Block Systems is a blockchain access management platform based out of Palo
Alto, CA. Apocrita is their pet project that is meant to make it easier for
users to access files, regardless of how they have logged in to open it. They
want to solve the problem of – as one example – the Facebook user who cancels
their account and no longer has access to all the applications they logged
into through their former Facebook account. Apocrita is a blockchain-powered
solution to this problem. The distributed web platform is a unified access
platform that provides interoperability for existing and new identity models.
When such a system is deployed at large scale, the logistical and cost savings
can be substantial. Even on the personal level, it’s a useful tool.

### [**Cambridge Blockchain**](https://www.cambridge-blockchain.com/)

Cambridge Blockchain is a Boston-based innovative group working on blockchain-
based identity management and compliance software solutions for the financial
sector. Know-your-customer and other stringent regulatory imperatives make
finance one of the most red-tape heavy industries there is, and Cambridge
wants to reduce some of the headaches for compliance departments. Customer
privacy is a major part of remaining compliant, so Cambridge has conceived a
blockchain-powered solution to give the control over personal identity back to
the customer in a shareable way. Their distributed architecture ensures that
financial institutions have access to needed data without infringing on
privacy laws.

### [**SelfKey**](https://selfkey.org/)

SelfKey is a blockchain-based digital identity system for the integrated
financial services marketplace. Self-sovereign identity is at the heart of
SelfKey’s mission, as they believe self-ownership of personal data is the key
to secure management of identity. By putting forth the systems for users to
take control of all facets of their identity, SelfKey aims to reduce friction
in cryptocurrency management, financial onboarding, and immigration processes,
among other purposes. Tools for achieving this goal include the Identity
Wallet, which digitally secures personally-identifying assets and documents;
the SelfKey Marketplace, for comparison of and access to a wide-array of
identity-related services; and the KEY Token, which allows users to pay for
notary and verification services as well as other assets on the SelfKey
platform.

### [**Cryptonomica**](https://cryptonomica.net/#!/)

Cryptonomica is an online and offline identity verification service and a
global database of verified identities with keys for signing electronic
documents, blockchain transactions and KYC. It is focused on HelloSign-like
functionality.

### [**KYC Chain**](https://kyc-chain.com/)

has created an identity platform based on distributed ledger technology. The
platform aims to share verifiable identity claims, data or documents suitable
to satisfy compliance requirements for KYC onboarding or refresh. In terms of
data privacy, platform users own the “keys” to their personal data and
identity certificates, therefore identity owners are the only ones who get to
choose which part of their information is to be shared.

### [**ShoCard**](https://shocard.com/) ****

Using a blend of blockchain-based data and facial recognition techniques,
ShoCard is a mobile identity platform that provides a variety of use cases,
including repeat authentication, true-digital signature with non-perishable
audit-trail, transaction authorization, login services without
username/passwords, and user authentication in financial transactions, travel,
health, government.

### [**Trusted Key Identity**](https://www.trustedkey.com/)

TKI is an identity management startup that uses Ethereum for online
onboarding, KYC and identity/document checks. The startup offers a mobile
identity wallet and REST API web services that enable definitive user identity
verification, password-less login, as well as identity fraud prevention via
secure transaction and document signing. The design supports lost or stolen
handling as well as new device scenarios without having to trust any other
party.

### [**Jolocom**](https://jolocom.io/)

Standard DID-method based SSI with a mobile identity wallet.



### _**Disclaimer**_

_This document (the “ **Document** ”) is produced by Outlier Ventures
Operations Limited and its affiliates (“ **Outlier** ”). The Document may
contain material that is not directed to, or intended for distribution to or
use by, any person or entity who is a citizen or resident of or located in any
locality, state, country or other jurisdiction where such distribution,
publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation or
which would subject Outlier to any registration or licensing requirement
within such jurisdiction. _

_All material presented in this Document, unless specifically indicated
otherwise, is under copyright to Outlier and/or Outlier’s licensors._

_The Document should not be considered a recommendation by Outlier or any of
its directors, officers, employees, agents or advisers in connection with any
purchase of or subscription for securities or otherwise. Recipients should not
construe the contents of this Document as legal, tax, regulatory, financial,
investment, trading or accounting advice or services and are urged to consult
with their own advisers in relation to such matters. The information contained
in the Document has been prepared purely for informational purposes._

_Information and opinions presented in this report have been obtained or
derived from sources believed by Outlier to be reliable, but Outlier makes no
representation as to their accuracy or completeness. Outlier accepts no
liability for loss arising from the use of the material presented in this
report. Outlier may have issued, and may in the future issue, other
communications that are inconsistent with, and reach different conclusions
from, the information presented in this report. Those communications reflect
the different assumptions, views and analytical methods of the analysts who
prepared them and Outlier is under no obligation to ensure that such other
communications are brought to the attention of any recipient of this
Document._

_Past performance should not be taken as an indication or guarantee of future
performance, and no representation or warranty, express or implied, is made
regarding future performance. Information, opinions and estimates contained in
this Document reflect a judgment at its original date of publication by
Outlier and are subject to change without notice._

_This Document may provide the addresses of, or contain hyperlinks to,
websites. Except to the extent to which the report refers to website material
of Outlier, Outlier has not reviewed any such site and takes no responsibility
for the content contained therein. Such address or hyperlink (including
addresses or hyperlinks to Outlier 's own website material) is provided solely
for your convenience and information and the content of any such website does
not in any way form part of this document. Accessing such website or following
such link through this report or Outlier's website shall be at your own risk._

Sign up to

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/outlierventureslogo-dark.svg)

  * [Diffusion](https://outlierventures.io/diffusion/ "Diffusion")
    * [Events](/events/ "Events")
    * [Podcasts](/podcasts/ "Podcasts")
  * [About us](https://outlierventures.io/about-us/ "About us")
    * [Team](/team/ "Team")
    * [Press](https://outlierventures.io/press/ "Press")
    * [Offices](https://outlierventures.io/offices/ "Offices")
    * [Sitemap](https://outlierventures.io/sitemap/ "Sitemap")
  * [Terms and conditions](https://outlierventures.io/terms-and-conditions/ "Terms and conditions")
  * [Privacy Policy](https://outlierventures.io/privacy-policy/ "Privacy policy")
  * [Security Procedures](https://outlierventures.io/security-procedures/ "Security Procedures")

  * [The Open Metaverse Thesis](https://outlierventures.io/research/the-open-metaverse-os/)
    * [Base Camp Accelerator](https://outlierventures.io/base-camp/)
    * [Ascent Scaling Program](https://outlierventures.io/ascent/)
    * [Portfolio](/portfolio)
  * [News](https://outlierventures.io/intelligence/)
    * [Industry Reports](/reports/)
    * [Research Articles](/research/)
    * [Company News](/news/)
    * [OV Weekly Newsletter](/sign-up/)

[__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/OutlierVentures)[__](https://twitter.com/oviohq)[__](https://t.me/outlierventures)[![](https://ovio.wpengine.com/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/crunchbase.svg)](https://angel.co/outlierventures-
io/)[__](https://github.com/OutlierVentures)[__](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCd_K-
AgiS2XV8_iuRQ7JyNQ)[__](https://discord.gg/qjcZKsfXXM)

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/UKBAA-full-
logo_50px.png) ![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/chamber-logo-white_55px.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/BVCA.png)
![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/WSBA.png)

Outlier Ventures Operations Limited is registered in England and Wales with
company registration number 10722638.

![](https://outlierventures.io/wp-
content/themes/ov/assets/images/ovweekly.svg)

